GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE MAY
19 MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL IF YOU'RE ABLE
PLEASE RISE AND JOIN US FOR A
MOMENT OF SILENCE FOLLOWED BY
THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
LIKE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE
WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR
ALL.
PUT OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL
COUNCILMAN DISH
HERE COUNCILMAN HARRISON UPSET
CUSTOMER WATSON UPSET CUSTOMER
AMALEK HERE CUSTOMER DENHA HERE
.
CUSTOMER GARTSIDE ONE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE.
THAT'S IRE HERE COMES RIGHT
HERE.
THAT'S OUR BRICKS HERE CUSTOMER
CORNER HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
MAKE THE MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA BY
COUNCILMAN IRA PSYCHOBILLY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED TO HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
NO MAYOR, WE DO HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF AN INTRODUCTION
FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY.
MISS THOMPSON, YOU HAVE THE CON
.
THANK YOU.
WAIT FOR MY PRESENTATION TO
COME UP
FOR SHOULD IT BE ON ALL
SCREENS
?
>> OH HERE WE GO.
OK, THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
>> SO TONIGHT I WANTED TO USE
MY TIME TO GIVE YOU ALL SOME
UPDATES ON THE PARKING SYSTEM.
MY APOLOGIES MA'AM.
WOULD YOU PLEASE LOWER YOUR
SIGN BELOW SHOULDER LEVEL SO
THAT PEOPLE BEHIND YOU CAN SEE
THAT IS THE RULE OF COUNCIL.
THANK IS THE RULE IS THEY KEEP
IT BELOW YOUR SHOULDER LEVEL.
THAT IS THE RULE.
THANK YOU.
MY NO PROBLEM WE'LL START WITH
UTILIZATION AND REVENUE.
SO THIS GRAPH THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT IS COVID IMPACT AND
RECOVERY REVENUE TREND CHART.
YOU'VE PROBABLY SEEN SOME
OF THIS BEFORE BUT JUST HIGH
LEVEL F.I. TWENTY NINETEEN WAS
OUR LAST PRE PANDEMIC YEAR.
WE CAME IN AT ABOUT TWENTY
THREE MILLION DOLLARS IN
REVENUE.
YOU CAN SEE WHY TWENTY ONE WAS
A FULL PANDEMIC YEAR AND OUR
REVENUE WAS CUT ALMOST IN HALF.
HOWEVER BEGINNING IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO WE STARTED TO SEE
THAT SLOW RECOVERY WE HAVE
BUDGETED FOR TWENTY FOUR TO
COME IN AT ABOUT TWENTY FOUR
MILLION DOLLARS.
HOWEVER WITH HOW THINGS ARE
TRENDING RIGHT NOW WE
ANTICIPATE COMING IN ABOUT 10
PERCENT HIGHER THAN THAT.
SO AS A REMINDER THE CITY DOES
RECEIVE TWENTY PERCENT OF GROSS
PARKING REVENUE SO THAT WILL BE
ABOUT OR OVER FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS FOR THE CITY AND THIS
IS OCCUPANCY AND THIS IS JUST A
POINT IN TIME.
SO THIS IS COMPARING MARCH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR OCCUPANCY
THE ORANGE BARS TO MARCH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE OF BLUE BARS.
THIS IS SHOWING ALL OF OUR
PARKING STRUCTURES AND THE
CLINE LOT AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
UTILIZATION IS UP ACROSS THE
SYSTEM WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF MAINARD AND REMEMBER THAT'S
JUST THE MONTH OF MARCH AND WE
WANTED TO SHARE SOME
INFORMATION ON THE GO PASS.
SO THIS IS OUR GRANT HISTORY.
THE PARKING SYSTEM SUPPORTS THE
GET DOWNTOWN PROGRAM.
IT ALSO FUNDS THE GO PASS ON A
PER RIDE BASIS SO THIS GRANT
AMOUNT DIRECTLY CORRELATES TO
GO PAST RIDERSHIP.
SO YOU CAN SEE THAT THE COVID
IMPACT AND RECOVERY REALLY
MIRRORS THE PARKING SYSTEM.
EXACTLY EXCEPT MUCH MORE
DRAMATIC NY TWENTY NINETEEN
THAT GRANT WAS ALMOST EIGHT
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS CUT TO
TWENTY ONE WHICH WAS AGAIN THAT
FULL PANDEMIC YEAR AND IT WAS
CUT OVER EIGHTY FIVE PERCENT.
>> THEY ARE TRENDING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
YOU CAN SEE THE RECOVERY BEGAN
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO
AND
CONTINUES.
WE ARE OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THE GO
PASS AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO A
TIME WHEN THAT GRANT LEVEL GETS
BACK TO THOSE PRE PANDEMIC
LEVELS AND WITH THE
ENHANCEMENTS THAT THE RIDE HAS
MADE TO SERVICE AND FREQUENCY
WE'RE VERY ENCOURAGED.
>> SO NOW TO SWITCH GEARS TALK
JUST REALLY BRIEFLY ABOUT SOME
RESTORATION AND MAINTENANCE
HIGHLIGHTS, WE ARE JUST ABOUT
FINISHED WITH A ONE POINT ONE
MILLION ROOFTOP FENCING
REPLACEMENT PROJECTS AT SIX
OF OUR STRUCTURES.
FIVE HAVE BEEN COMPLETED.
LIBERTY SQUARE REMAINS TO BE
DONE AND WE ANTICIPATE THAT
HAPPENING NEXT MONTH.
AND YOU CAN SEE AS AN EXAMPLE
FROM THE PHOTOS THE ENHANCED
FACE FENCING THAT WE HAVE
INSTALLED.
WE ALSO HAVE A ONE POINT THREE
MILLION SUSTAINABILITY PROJECT
IN TWO OF OUR STRUCTURES.
WE ARE HAVING SUPPLY CHAIN
ISSUES SO THAT PROJECT HAS BEEN
DELAYED.
HOWEVER, ONCE WE DO HAVE OUR
PRODUCTS WE WILL BE REPLACING
EIGHT HUNDRED AND EIGHTY METAL
HALIDE AND FLUORESCENT FIXTURES
WITH LEDS WE'LL HAVE SYSTEMS
THAT WILL INCLUDE MOTION
SENSORS DIMMING CAPABILITIES
AND DAYLIGHT HARVESTING AND WE
SHOULD SEE A REDUCTION IN OUR
ELECTRICAL LOAD BY ABOUT 70
PERCENT AND THEN ACCESSIBLE
PARKING.
SO THROUGH OUR CURBSIDE
MANAGEMENT STUDY WE DID AN
EVALUATION OF ON-STREET
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SO PRO-AM
THE PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES THOSE
STANDARD IDS HAVE BEEN UPDATED.
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN ADOPTED YET
AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL BUT THEY
HAVE BEEN UPDATED.
SO WE WANTED TO KIND OF GET
AHEAD OF THAT AND MAKE SURE
THAT WE WERE IN COMPLIANCE.
SO THOSE PRIOR GUIDELINES FOR
ON STREET SPACES REQUIRE ONE
A.D.A SPACE FOR EVERY TWENTY
FIVE PAGE SPACES ON A BLOCK
PERIMETER.
SO WE DID THE ANALYSIS OF THE
ENTIRE PARKING AREA, FIGURED
OUT WHAT WE HAD TO ADD TO BE IN
COMPLIANCE OR EXCEED TO DATE WE
HAVE CONVERTED FORTY FIVE ADA
SPACES.
WE HAVE ANOTHER FIFTEEN THAT WE
ANTICIPATE HAVING COMPLETED BY
THE END OF THE SUMMER WHICH
WILL BRING OUR TOTAL ADA SPACES
ON STREET UP TO ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY WHICH IS MORE THAN
DOUBLE WHERE WE STARTED.
>> PROHACK HAS ALSO SET NEW
STANDARDS FOR INSTALLING ADA
SPACES ON NEWLY CONSTRUCTED OR
SIGNIFY GANTLEY CONSTRUCTED
STREETS AGAIN THOSE STANDARDS
HAVE NOT BEEN ADOPTED YET AND
WE DO NEED MORE INFORMATION ON
THE DEFINITION OF WHAT A
SIGNIFICANTLY RECONSTRUCTED
STREET IS.
HOWEVER WE WANT TO DO A TEST
CASE AND WE HAD A PROJECT ON
NORTH FOR THIAB WHERE WE WERE
ABLE TO INSTALL ONE OF THESE
SPACES WE WANTED TO LEARN WHAT
THE IMPACTS WOULD BE ON THE
PROJECT IN TERMS OF TIMING AND
COST.
SO THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OR THAT IS
A PICTURE OF THE SPACE WE
INSTALLED.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT REQUIRES A
CURB CUT THAT ALLOWS THE PERSON
TO PULL RIGHT UP NEXT TO THE
CURB NEXT TO THE SIDEWALK AND A
SIDEWALK RAMP.
>> WHAT WE LEARNED FROM THIS
INSTALLATION IS THAT EVERY
SPACE IS GOING TO BE UNIQUE.
IT'S GOING TO BE CRITICAL THAT
WE DO UNDERGROUND EXPLORATION
BECAUSE THE DEPTH OF THINGS
LIKE GAS LINES ARE THE
UTILITIES AND CONDUIT MAKE A
DIFFERENCE AND THERE WILL BE
CASES WE WERE LUCKY WE DIDN'T
HAVE THAT IN THIS CASE BUT
WHERE GAS LINES AND OTHER
CONDUIT AND UTILITIES WILL HAVE
TO BE MOVED WHICH WILL ADD
SIGNIFICANT TIMING AND COST TO
PROJECTS.
SO AS AN EXAMPLE OF THIS
PROJECT, THIS SPACE ADDED ABOUT
FORTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO THE
OVERALL PROJECT COST.
>> WE ARE ALSO WORKING TO MAKE
SOME ENHANCEMENTS ON OUR
WEBSITE TO ADA SPACE LOCATIONS.
IT SHOULD BE DONE IN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF WEEKS.
WE'RE ADDING A STATIC MAP OR
ADDING AN INTERACTIVE MAP AND I
THINK MOST IMPORTANT WE'RE
ADDING A COMPANION DOCUMENT
THAT DESCRIBES EACH SPACE WITH
DETAILS SUCH AS WHERE IT IS
LOCATED ON THE BLOCK, WHAT THE
ADJACENT MATERIAL IS TO THE
SPACE AND ANY OBSTRUCTIONS
BECAUSE WE KNOW WITH OUR
DOWNTOWN THINGS AREN'T PERFECT
AND THERE ARE PLACES WHERE
THERE ARE SIGNS AND BACKUPS AND
BENCHES AND DIFFERENT THINGS.
SO WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO GIVE
PEOPLE AS MUCH INFORMATION AS
WE CAN AND THEN FINALLY PARKING
RATES YOU ALL MAY REMEMBER THAT
LAST SPRING THEY BOUGHT
APPROVED A THREE YEAR SCHEDULE
OF RATE INCREASES THAT FIRST
RATE INCREASE WENT INTO EFFECT
LAST JULY.
FIRST OUR SECOND RATE INCREASE
IS COMING UP THIS JULY 1ST.
IT WILL BRING A PARKING
STRUCTURE HOURLY RATES TO A
DOLLAR SIXTY FIVE, OUR MONTHLY
PERMIT RATES TO TWO HUNDRED AND
FORTY FIVE AN HOUR ON STREET
METER RATES TO TWO DOLLARS AND
FIFTY CENTS.
THAT FINAL INCREASE IN THIS
SCHEDULE WILL BE NEXT JULY 1ST
AND AT THAT SAME TIME WE WILL
START EVALUATING RATES INTO THE
FUTURE AND THAT IS ALL I HAVE
AND I THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMON
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK ACCOUNTS IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK PUBLIC AND
RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
I NOTE TODAY THAT WE HAVE
TWENTY ONE PERSONS SIGNED UP TO
SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
TIME.
>> THE RULES OF COUNCIL PROVIDE
THAT WE HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME FOR EITHER FORTY
FIVE MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE MEETING
THAT WE RESERVED FOR FORTY FIVE
MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT AT
THE BEGINNING THE MEDIA AND
THEN IF THERE REMAINS ANYONE ON
OUR LIST WHO HAS NOT YET HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK THAT THAT
PERSON HAS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK TOWARDS THE END OF THE
MEETING AT PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW AT TIME SO WE WILL
HEAR PUBLIC COMMENT FOR FORTY
FIVE MINUTES OR FIFTEEN OR AT
THE LEAST FIFTEEN PERSONS AND
THEN IF THERE'S ANY TIME
REMAINING UNDER THAT 45 LIMIT
WILL GO TO SIXTEEN SEVENTEEN
PERHAPS EIGHTEEN AND THEN THE
BALANCE WILL BE HAVE THEIR
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ERIC
ADVANTAGE.
>> MR. IVANNA JUST JOINING US
ON ZUM ERIC VONAGE.
>> GO AHEAD AND SPEAK GOOD
EVENING.
MY NAME IS ERIC IVANCICH AND
I'M CALLING FROM THE THIRD WARD
.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS
BRIGS AKMAN AND QUINNELL FOR
INTRODUCING AMENDMENT TWO TO
ITEM D EIGHT AS PART OF OUR
CITIES TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE BUDGET.
WE KNOW THAT MAKING OUR ROADS
SAFER IS ONE OF THE MOST
EFFECTIVE WAYS TO PROTECT
PEOPLE EVERY DAY AND EVERY
YEAR.
UNFORTUNATELY, DESPITE THE
CITY'S COMMITMENT TO MISSION
ZERO BACK IN TWENTY FIFTEEN WE
HAVE FALLEN SHORT OF OUR GOAL
TO ELIMINATE TRAFFIC DEATHS AND
SERIOUS INJURIES.
ONE PROVEN APPROACH TO
IMPROVING SAFETY IS A ROAD DIET
RECONFIGURING A FOUR LANE ROAD
TWO OR THREE LANES INCLUDING A
CENTER TURN LANE STUDY SHOWED
THAT CAN REDUCE CRASHES BY
NINETEEN PERCENT TO FORTY SEVEN
PERCENT BY MAKING TRAFFIC FLOW
MORE PREDICTABLE LOWERING
SPEEDS AND REDUCING DANGEROUS
CONFLICTS BETWEEN VEHICLES.
ROAD DIETS ALSO MAKE WALKING
AND BIKING SAFER FUEL LANES IN
SHORTER CROSSINGS FOR
PEDESTRIANS AND ADDING FEATURES
LIKE REFUGE VIOLENCE HELPS
PROTECT THEM FURTHER.
THESE CHANGES CAN ALSO CREATE
ROOM FOR BIKE LANES, BUS STOPS
AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION
OPTIONS MAKING THE STREETS MORE
ACCESSIBLE FOR EVERYONE.
MANY LOCALS WHO USE OUR STREETS
THAT HAVE UNDERGONE RECENT ROAD
DIETS WHETHER WALKING, BIKING
OR DRIVING SO THEY FEEL SAFER
AND THAT THE ROADS WORK BETTER.
AND IMPORTANTLY MANY OF THESE
IMPROVEMENTS CAN BE DONE
QUICKLY WITH QUICK BILLSOW
COST FAST DEPLOY SOLUTIONS THAT
BRING IMMEDIATE BENEFITS AND
THAT IS WHY AMENDMENT TWO WAS
AN IMPORTANT NEXT STEP AS IT
WILL PROVIDE THE MONEY
NECESSARY FOR SOME OF THESE
PROJECTS AND IT'S AN
APPROPRIATE FOLLOW ON TO THE
COMMITMENT YOU UNANIMOUSLY
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED ON APRIL
7TH TO MORE FULLY INCORPORATE
VISION ZERO INTO CITY PROJECTS
.
RIGHT NOW THE CITY DOES NOT
HAVE FULL CONTROL OVER MANY
OF THE FOUR LANE ROADS RUNNING
THROUGH TOWN.
HOWEVER, STADIUM BOULEVARD IS
ONE ROAD THAT WE DO MANAGE AND
I HOPE SOME OF THESE QUICK
BUILD FUNDS WILL BE USED THERE
BEYOND AMENDMENT TWO.
I ALSO TRUST THAT OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR IS WORKING
ACTIVELY USING THE AUTHORITY
YOU'VE GIVEN HIM TO NEGOTIATE
THE TRANSFER OF STATE TRUNK
LINES TO CITY CONTROL WITH HIS
EXPERTIZE AND THE TALENT OF OUR
CITY STAFF.
I'M CONFIDENT WE CAN MAKE
PROGRESS AND THAT RESULTS
OF THESE NEGOTIATIONS ARE
FORTHCOMING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR RECENT
EFFORTS FOCUSED ON SAFETY AND I
URGE YOU TO PASS OUR AMENDMENT
TO UNANIMOUSLY THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOHN WALKER
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL OF JOHN
WALKER AND I CURRENTLY
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
SPECIALISTS THAT ARE RIGHT AWAY
AS WELL AS A PEER NAVIGATOR.
MY INTERESTS HERE TODAY IS TO
SPEAK TO THE PRIMARY BENEFIT
OF THE CASE OF RAISING HOPE,
RISING HOPE AND REFUNDING THE
BUDGET TO ESTABLISH OR MAINTAIN
THE SUPPORT.
I THANK YOU FOR YOUR PREVIOUS
VOTES OF IN SUPPORT OF THIS
PARTICULAR ISSUE AND THE
PARTNERSHIPS THAT HAVE BEEN
ESTABLISHED FOR RETURNING
CITIZENS.
INTERESTINGLY, INDIVIDUALS WITH
STABLE HOUSING ARE FAR
LESS
LIKELY TO REOFFEND.
>> RISING HOPE HAS PROVIDED THE
FOUNDATION TO THE NECESSARY
BENEFIT OF INDIVIDUALS WHO LACK
SAFE AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THEY ALSO PROVIDE OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
PROVIDED SAFE HOUSING THE
LIKELY HOOD THAT THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO CONTRIBUTE SUCCESSFULLY
TO OUR COMMUNITY.
I'M GRATEFUL THAT THIS
PARTICULAR INITIATIVE WILL
DECREASE HOMELESSNESS AND THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR NEED
OF EMERGENCY SERVICES.
STABLE HOUSING INCREASES AN
INDIVIDUAL'S ABILITY TO SECURE
AND MAINTAIN EMPLOYMENT.
AS I MENTIONED THE LAST TIME I
WAS HERE A FEW WEEKS AGO AN
EXAMPLE OF THAT AND I'M
GRATEFUL FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
BE IN SPEAK BEFORE BECAUSE
WITHOUT THE OPPORTUNITIES
PROVIDED RIGHT AWAY IN THEIR
NAVIGATION PROCESS I WOULD NOT
BE HERE AND THEY ARE SEATS
OCCUPIED BEHIND ME THAT POINT
TO THAT FACT AS WELL.
>> I'M GRATEFUL THAT ANN ARBOR
SEEKS TO ADDRESS SYSTEMIC
BARRIERS WHICH INCLUDE
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST THOSE
WHO ARE OR HAVE BEEN PREVIOUSLY
INCARCERATED.
YOU CAN ONLY IMAGINE THE
BARRIERS THAT I FACE AFTER
SERVING FORTY SIX YEARS AND
ELEVEN DAYS SO INCREDIBLY
WITHOUT REFUND HOPE RISING HOPE
FOR HOUSING AND ITS
PARTNERSHIPS AND ITS
CONNECTIONS.
WHAT HAPPENS TO PEOPLE LIKE ME
?
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE DO SUCCEED
BUT THE BURDENS AND ISSUES
OF LIFE ARE SO INSURMOUNTABLE
WE GET EMPLOYMENT BUT WE FALL
ILL WITH SICKNESS WE ARE UNABLE
TO NAVIGATE IN THE TECHNOL
GROUND WHEN WE DON'T HAVE
INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE SHARED
EXPERIENCES AND HAVE EMPATHY
AND COMPASSION FOR US.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE HEARING
ME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARGARET
MACALL
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MARGARET MCCALL.
I LIVE BY BEARPARK AND I'M HERE
TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO PLEASE VOTE
THIS EVENING TO PASS THE ROAD
SAFETY AMENDMENT AND TO
PRIORITIZE TAKING ACTION ASAP
TO MAKE AN ARBOR'S ROAD SAFER
FOR BOTH CYCLISTS AND
PEDESTRIANS.
I AM AN AVID CYCLIST AS YOU CAN
SEE AND A NEW MOM AND MY BABY
IS JUST GETTING TO THE AGE
WHERE I'M EXCITED TO START
BIKING WITH HIM IN A TRAILER
AND IN THEORY THIS SHOULD BE A
REALLY JOYFUL TIME BUT I AM
INCREDIBLY NERVOUS.
MOST OF THE BIKE RIDES THAT I
TYPICALLY TAKE IN ANN ARBOR
HAVE A LEVEL OF RISK THAT I
DON'T FIND ACCEPTABLE FOR MY
SON EVEN TO BIKE A FEW MINUTES
FROM OUR HOUSE TO HIS DAY CARE
REQUIRES TRUSTING THE PAINT
PREY BIKE LANES ON STONE SCHOOL
AND NAVIGATING TWO OR THREE
TRULY NERVE WRACKING
INTERSECTIONS AND GETTING
DOWNTOWN ON PACARD FEELS PRETTY
DICEY AND GETTING ACROSS TOWN
ON STADIUM FEELS FRANKLY
RESPONSIBLE.
AND IF AN AVID BIKER LIKE ME IS
SO NERVOUS, REDUCING OUR
RELIANCE ON CARS AS A CITY
SEEMS LIKE A DISTANT DREAM.
I HAVE BEEN DEEPLY TROUBLED BY
THE RECENT RASH PEDESTRIANS
INJURED OR KILLED IN ANN ARBOR.
IT IS LITERALLY KEEPING ME UP
AT NIGHT.
IT IS VITAL THAT THE CITY
ALLOCATE FUNDS TO IMPROVE ROAD
SAFETY FOR VULNERABLE ROAD
USERS, ESPECIALLY IN LIGHT
OF THE TERRIBLE WE MUST PASS
AMENDMENT TWO TO ALLOCATE ROAD
SAFETY FUNDS IN THE CITY
BUDGET.
I WOULD FURTHER ENCOURAGE THE
CITY TO PRIORITIZE SPENDING ITS
MONEY ON QUICK BUILD PROJECTS
ASAP FOR INSTANCE ON A STADIUM
ROAD TO TEST OUT PROMISING
CONCEPT SOONER BECAUSE IF ANN
ARBOR GETS STUCK IN ANALYSIS
PARALYSIS ON ROAD
RECONFIGURATIONS PEOPLE WILL
DIE IN THE MEANTIME I FEEL SAD
TO MAKE A STATEMENT ABOUT
BIKING WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT
I TRULY LOVE WITH SUCH A
NEGATIVE TONE TO IT I REALLY
WANT TO FEEL HAPPY AND SAFE
WHEN I THINK ABOUT BIKING IN
THIS BEAUTIFUL CITY WITH MY
FAMILY.
SO PLEASE PRIORITIZE FUNDING
BIKE AND PEDESTRIAN SAFETY FOR
THIS COMING FISCAL YEAR BY
PASSING THE ROAD SAFETY
AMENDMENT AND REALIZING
TANGIBLE PROJECTS TOWARDS THAT
GOAL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOSEPH
MEYER.
NOW NO GROUP NOT PRESENT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ AND
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD LAST
MONTH I SPOKE IN SUPPORT OF A
RESOLUTION REAFFIRMING OUR
CITY'S PREVIOUS COMMITMENT
DIVISION ZERO INTERCUTTING
CUTTING VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
IN HALF AND AT YOUR LAST
MEETING I SPOKE AT THE PUBLIC
HEARING PERTAINING TO THIS
BUDGET ASKING FOR YOU TO PUT
OUR MONEY WHERE OUR MOUTH IS BY
FUNDING VISION ZERO QUICK BUILD
PROJECTS A FEW SHORT HOURS
AFTER THAT MEETING, MURRAY WAS
STRUCK AND KILLED BY A DRIVER
AS HE CROSSED HERE AND IN HIS
WHEELCHAIR.
YET ANOTHER VICTIM OF TRAFFIC
VIOLENCE IN OUR CITY JUST A
BLOCK FROM WHERE WE SIT TONIGHT
AND TWO BLOCKS FROM WHERE A
DRIVER SERIOUSLY INJURED
ANOTHER PEDESTRIAN A WEEK
EARLIER HERE ON HIS FIVE LANES
WIDE A DEADLY HIGHWAY THROUGH
THE HEART OF OUR CITY AND
APPARENTLY FEELS THIS ROAD
NEEDS TO BE ABLE TO MOVE CARS
QUICKLY.
PEDESTRIANS ARE AN AFTERTHOUGHT
IN THE AFTERMATH OF THIS
TRAFFIC VIOLENCE.
I SAW SERIOUSLY SUGGESTED ON
SOCIAL MEDIA THAT WE SHOULD
REMOVE CROSSWALKS ALONG HERE ON
THAT.
HAVING CROSSWALKS WHERE PEOPLE
NEED TO CROSS IS DANGEROUS.
THIS IMPLIES THAT IT'S
PEDESTRIANS WHO MAKE OUR ROADS
DANGEROUS.
IT'S ASTOUNDING THAT PEOPLE CAN
BE SO CALLOUS.
I LIVE NEAR W STADIUM MOST
OF MY NEIGHBORHOOD'S AMENITIES
SUCH AS GROCERY STORES,
RESTAURANTS AND SHOPPING ARE
ALONG THAT CORRIDOR AS A MAJOR
MULTI LANE ROAD IS VERY SIMILAR
TO HERE AND IT IS DESIGNED TO
MOVE CARS NOT AS A PLACE TO
EXIST OUTSIDE OF A CAR.
THERE ARE FEW SAFE CROSSINGS SO
PEOPLE CROSS BETWEEN THEM OFTEN
WAITING IN THE LEFT TURN LANE
FOR TRAFFIC TO CLEAR
PEDESTRIANS OR AN AFTERTHOUGHT.
AS A RESULT, WALKING IS NOT
COMFORTABLE AND SO THE PEOPLE
WHO CAN DRIVE PEOPLE DRIVE HALF
A MILE TO BUY A GALLON OF MILK.
A FEW MONTHS AGO A WOMAN WAS
KILLED CROSSING ANOTHER WIDE
MULTI LANE ROAD WITH FEW SAFE
CROSSINGS.
THIS KEEPS HAPPENING AND IT'S A
RESULT OF MANY OF YOU CREATING
ZERO IS A NICE TO HAVE IS ICING
ON THE CAKE SOMETHING WE CAN DO
WHEN WE HAVE SOME EXTRA MONEY
OR CAN GET A GRANT FOR IT BUT
NOT SOMETHING WE ARE GOING TO
TREAT AS MORE THAN A SYMBOLIC
GESTURE.
WE CAN'T AFFORD THAT APPROACH.
WE CAN'T AFFORD TO LOSE MORE
PEOPLE TO TRAFFIC VIOLENCE TO
HAVE MORE LIVES ENDED OR
FOREVER CHANGED BY A
PREVENTABLE CRASH.
BUDGETS ARE MORAL DOCUMENTS.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS
BRIGGS EKMAN AND CORNELL FOR
BRINGING FORWARD AMENDMENT TWO
WHICH CALLS FOR SHIFTING HALF A
MILLION DOLLARS FROM MAJOR
STREETS FUND CAPITAL FOR
PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE TO A
QUICK BUILD PROJECT.
I ASK THAT THE REST OF YOU
SUPPORT THIS AMENDMENT AS A
DEMONSTRATION OF YOUR
COMMITMENT TO KEEPING AND OUR
RESIDENTS AND VISITORS SAFE AS
WE TRAVEL AROUND THE CITY.
FURTHERMORE IN THIS MIGHT BE A
BIT MORBID.
I ASK THAT IF I'M KILLED BY A
DRIVER WHILE WALKING HOME
TONIGHT THAT MY DEATH
DEPOLITICIZE.
I ALSO SUPPORT AMENDMENT ONE TO
FUND THE RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING PROGRAM AND AMENDMENT
THREE TO SUPPORT EVICTION
PREVENTION WHILE THESE
ALLOCATIONS ARE BOTH COMPETING
FOR THE SAME POT OF MONEY FROM
THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
REBATE, THEY APPEAR TO BE
COMPLEMENTARY AND I HOPE THAT
BOTH OF THESE CENTRAL PROGRAMS
CAN BE FUNDED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ANNIKA
MORAN
.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS ON A AROUND AND I
LIVE ON THE NORTH SIDE.
I DO NOT OWN A CAR SO I BICYCLE
AND WALK ALMOST EVERYWHERE AND
EVERY DAY I WONDER IF THAT DAY
WILL BE THE DAY THAT SOMEONE IN
A CAR WHO IS MOVING ORDERS
OF MAGNITUDE MORE MASS AT GREAT
SPEEDS THAN I AM WE'LL MAKE A
SPLIT DECISION OR MISTAKE THAT
WILL END MY HEALTH, MY MOBILITY
,MY ABILITY TO DO MY JOB OR
EVEN MY LIFE THIS WILL BE THE
REALITY FOR ME AND THOUSANDS
OF OTHERS EVERY DAY AS LONG AS
THE ROADS THAT WE MUST TAKE TO
GET TO WHERE WE'RE GOING ARE
DESIGNED FOR THE COMFORT AND
SHORT TERM CONVENIENCE
OF DRIVERS OVER ALL ELSE
DESPITE SOME PROMISING
EXCEPTIONS LIKE PROTECTED BIKE
LANES AND IF DOWNTOWN STREETS
THIS IS OVERALL THE PRESENT
SITUATION CYCLISTS AND
PEDESTRIANS DON'T JUST DESERVE
ALTERNATE ROUTES THAT ARE
NORMALLY SAFER BUT NOT
EFFICIENT AND COMFORTABLE.
WE DESERVE ALL OF THOSE THINGS
FOR WHICH TRAFFIC ENGINEERS
HAVE HISTORICALLY SACRIFICED
OUR LIVES TO AFFORD TO DRIVERS
WHICH IS SAFE, COMFORTABLE,
EFFICIENT AND INTUITIVE ROUTES
WHERE EVERY SECOND IS NOT A
SECOND IF WE WILL LIVE OR DIE
AND ALTHOUGH HISTORICALLY
PEOPLE'S LIVES HAVE BEEN
SACRIFICED FOR THE COMFORT OF
DRIVERS MOVING IN THE OTHER
DIRECTION WOULD NOT REQUIRE
SACRIFICE SAFE, COMFORTABLE,
INCONVENIENT ROADS FOR THOSE
OUTSIDE OF CARS BENEFITS
EVERYONE INCLUDING BUSINESSES,
THE ENVIRONMENT, CHILDREN, THE
ELDERLY, THE DISABLED AND EVEN
DRIVERS THEMSELVES.
SO PLEASE PURSUE ALL OPTIONS
THAT GET US TOWARDS THIS FUTURE
AND REMEMBER EVERY DAY COUNTS.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CANDIS
MCDERMITT
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL AND
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR.
HI MY NAME IS JAN DAVIS
MCDERMOTT.
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD
CURRENTLY I SERVE AS SECRETARY
FOR THE ANN ARBOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION BOARD.
MY PURPOSE HERE TONIGHT IS TO
BRIEF THE COUNCIL ON THE
POSITIVE ACTIVITY AND THE
INITIATIVES WHICH THE BOARD HAS
ENGAGED AND SUPPORT THE MISSION
OF REASONABLE SENSIBLE, CAREFUL
AND THOUGHTFULLY PLANNED
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> FOR THOSE WHO MAY NOT KNOW
WHO ARE HERE, THE CHARTER
OF THE ANN ARBOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION DIRECTS
US TO ASSIST IN THE ATTRACTION
,THE RELOCATION, THE
RETENTION, THE EXPANSION
OF PROFIT AND PROFIT MAKING
ORGANIZATIONS WHICH PROVIDE
EMPLOYMENT AND WHICH ARE
CONSIDERED CONSIDERED DESIRABLE
AND BENEFICIAL FOR OUR CITY.
WE WORK COLLABORATIVELY WITH
OTHER ENTITIES LIKE THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR, THE ANN ARBOR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT, THE NEWLY FORMED
AND SPARK PRIMARILY THROUGH
ISSUE OF TAX EXEMPT REVENUE
BONDS WHICH CAN RESULT
SUBSTANTIAL SAVINGS IN PROJECT
FINANCING.
WE'VE RECENTLY FORMED STRATEGIC
INITIATIVES DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE, THE OUTSIDE DC
WORKING COLLABORATIVE FULLY
WITH JOGA THE NEW ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR TO DEFINE
HOW WE CAN BEST SUPPORT HIM
UNDER THE NEW CITY ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT STRUCTURE.
ALSO THE ANNIVERSARY DC HAS
FORMED A SEPARATE NONPROFIT
ENTITY WHICH GIVES US MORE
FLEXIBILITY TO ASSIST AS A
PARTNER WE WORK WITH A NINE
PERSON BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
I'M PLEASED TO SAY THAT
JENNIFER AND JEN CORNEAU
PARTICIPATE ON THAT BOARD ALONG
WITH SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS
SPARKE BANKING AND FINANCE
PEOPLE AND EDUCATION AND
UNIVERSITY PEOPLE.
IT IS A CROSS SECTION WHICH
MAKES WISE DECISIONS WHILE OUR
PRIMARY STACH WERE PURPOSE IS
TO HELP LOWER FINANCING COSTS
BY ISSUING TAX EXEMPT REVENUE
BONDS.
WE HAVE ALSO ADJUSTED IN
COMMUNITY THE COMMUNITY IN
OTHER WAYS TODAY THIS
ASSISTANCE INCLUDES PROVIDE FOR
REFERRAL SERVICES TO WORK
COOPERATIVELY WITH THE CITY AND
OTHER AREA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATIONS IN OUR REGION AND
SIMILAR ENTITIES INVOLVED IN
COMMON AREAS OF INTEREST.
WE ENCOURAGE PROGRAMS THAT
ATTRACT AND RETAIN BUSINESSES
AND EMPLOYMENT AND SUBJECT TO
THE AVAILABILITY OF FUNDING WE
PROVIDE LOANS AND GRANTS.
I PERSONALLY PART OF THE TREE
LINE TRAIL PROJECT LINKING THE
BORDER TO BORDER TRAIL AND THE
FORMER DETI MAIN
REVITALIZATION.
THANK ME.
>> I'M SORRY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME SO I'M
SORRY.
>> NO THAT'S RIGHT.
I'M SORRY I'M NOT A LITTLE HARD
OF HEARING SO I DIDN'T HEAR
SOME OF THOSE THOSE BEEPS
THAT'S MY APPLICATION IS UP FOR
RENEWAL.
THANK YOU.
AND I'M HERE IN ORDER TO ARGUE
IN FAVOR OF THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM GRANT
,FELLOW COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I APPRECIATE YOU FOR LISTENING
TO US.
I KNOW IT CAN'T BE EASY
SOMETIMES I'M HERE IN SUPPORT
FOR A RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING.
THE LAST MEETING I TRIED TO
ATTEND VIRTUALLY WE ALL KNOW
THAT WAS DEBACLE SO I CAME
PERSONALLY THE LAST MEETING YOU
GOT THE NUMBERS.
>> SO THERE'S BEEN ONE HUNDRED
SEVENTY FAMILIES HELPED BY THIS
TODAY I WANT YOU TO THINK ABOUT
THE INVISIBLE PEOPLE WILL
ALWAYS TALK ABOUT VISIBLE.
A LOT OF THE WORK THAT WE DO IS
EXACTLY THAT INVISIBLE PEOPLE,
THE CRIMINAL HISTORY ARE OFTEN
INVISIBLE AND NOT LOOKED AT AND
THE WORK DONE BY PROGRAMS SUCH
AS A BRIGHTER AWAY AND A RISING
HOPE ARE ALSO INVISIBLE.
WHAT IS SUCCESSFUL IS THE
THINGS THAT YOU DON'T SEE AND
IT'S KIND OF HARD TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE THE ARGUMENT FOR THOSE
THINGS.
>> SOME OF THE PEOPLE HERE
PLEASE STAND UP RIGHT AWAY.
PEOPLE SOME OF THESE PEOPLE
HERE HAVE BEEN INVISIBLE IN THE
PAST AND THEY'RE NOT NOW
BECAUSE OF PROGRAMS SUCH AS
THIS.
>> PEOPLE STAY IN THEIR HOMES
AND DON'T COMMIT NEW CRIMES.
OUR TRAUMA INFORMED APPROACH
EMPOWERS THEM SO THAT THEY
DON'T NEED OTHER PUBLIC
RESOURCES.
SO THERE'S A MULTIPLIER.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT THIS
IS A PROPOSITION TO TAKE A
POSSIBLE HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN
THOUSAND ADDITIONAL DOLLARS
THAT WOULD BE ALLOCATED FOR A
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING FOR
EVICTION VERSION.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO
SEPARATE.
WE DO EVICTION DIVERSION, WE DO
EVICTION DIVERSION FOR THE MOST
VULNERABLE OF US.
>> IT'S ONE OF THE LAST
BASTIONS OF RACISM, XENOPHOBIA
AND EVERYTHING ELSE IS THE
HOUSING MARKET.
THEY DON'T HAVE TO LET YOU IN
IF YOU HAVE A RECORD.
I DID TWENTY SEVEN YEARS I HAVE
AN EIGHT HUNDRED CREDIT SCORE.
I'M EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF AN
ORGANIZATION AND I HAVE BEEN
REFUSED HOUSING RECENTLY SO BY
HELPING WITH THIS RESOLUTION
NOT NECESSARILY DIVERTING THE
FUNDS YOU CREATE A MULTIPLIER
APPROACH BECAUSE THIS HELPS
PEOPLE WHO HAVE A CRIMINAL
RECORD.
THIS HELPS PEOPLE WHO HAVE A
VOUCHER AND THEN THOSE OTHER
RESOURCES THAT ARE IN THE
COMMUNITY CAN BE USED FOR THE
OTHER PEOPLE THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT TO PULL IT SPECIFICALLY
FOR EVICTION.
DIVERSION DOESN'T HAVE THAT
SAME MULTIPLIER EFFECT.
I ASK YOU TO THINK ABOUT THIS
LAST THING AND I WERE KIND
OF FASHIONS ITSELF AS BEING A
LITTLE BIT MORE LIBERAL.
I KNOW EVERYBODY KNOWS WHAT'S
GOING ON IN POLITICS THESE
DAYS.
>> WE'VE SEEN THE POLITICAL
TSUNAMI OF POLICIES AND FUNDING
DECISIONS THAT LEAVE THE MOST
VULNERABLE BEHIND.
PLEASE DON'T FOLLOW THIS TREND
BY PULLING FUNDING FOR THE MOST
VULNERABLE FOR THE LESS SO I'M
NOT SAYING THERE AREN'T PEOPLE
IN NEED.
THIS IS NOT THE POPULATION TO
PULL IT FROM.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JENNIFER
JOHN
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS JENNIFER ST. JOHN
AND I WORK WITH THE BRIDE AWAY,
ONE OF THE PROUD PARTNERS AND
THE RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
PROGRAM.
I'M ALSO A FORMER LANCASTER
INDIVIDUAL AND I STAND BEFORE
YOU NOT JUST IN THIS WORK THAT
I DO BUT AS SOMEONE WHO KNOWS
FIRSTHAND THE DEEP CHALLENGES
OF REENTRY AFTER SERVING 20
YEARS AND THE CARCERAL SYSTEM
WHEN I CAME HOME I THOUGHT
FREEDOM WOULD MEAN STABILITY.
BUT THE TRUTH IS IT TOUGH.
IT TOOK ME THREE LONG AND
EXHAUSTING YEARS TO SECURE AN
APARTMENT.
>> IN THAT TIME I STAYED IN
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING ON THE
EAST SIDE OF DETROIT, BOUNCED
BETWEEN HOTELS, PAID
APPLICATION FEES THAT I
COULDN'T AFFORD, DENIED
CONSISTENTLY I FELT LIKE I
DIDN'T BELONG ANYWHERE.
I'VE ONLY BEEN OUT FOR FOUR
YEARS MEANING THAT MOST OF MY
REENTRY HAS BEEN JUST TRYING TO
FIND A PLACE TO CALL HOME.
THAT'S WHY RAISING HOPE MATTERS
SO DEEPLY TO ME IT MATTERS SO
MUCH.
I WORKED IN LANSING TODAY AND
DROVE ALL THE WAY HERE JUST TO
MAKE SURE THAT I WAS HERE IN
PERSON.
IT'S NOT JUST A HOUSING
PROGRAM.
IT'S A PATH TO DIGNITY.
IT ALLOWS THOSE INCARCERATED,
THOSE FORMERLY INCARCERATED HAD
A CHANCE TO REST TO REBUILD, TO
RAISE THEIR CHILDREN WITHOUT
SHAME OR INSTABILITY.
IT CREATES ROOM FOR HEALING,
FOR HOPE AND FOR A FUTURE THAT
WE CAN SHAPE ON OUR OWN TERMS.
>> HOUSING IS THE FOUNDATION
FOR EVERYTHING EMPLOYMENT,
MENTAL HEALTH, FAMILY
REUNIFICATION WITHOUT IT,
NOTHING ELSE WORKS WITH IT.
EVERYTHING BECOMES POSSIBLE.
I URGE YOU TO APPROVE THE
BUDGET FOR RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING AS IT'S NOT JUST AN
INVESTMENT IN HOUSING, IT'S AN
INVESTMENT IN PEOPLE AND
FAMILIES AND IT'S MORE IT'S
JUST EQUITABLE COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DENHA
PAPAZIAN
.
I WOULD LOVE TO SHAME THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE BEGGING DENHA TO
PALIN IF YOU'RE ON THE PHONE
CAN YOU PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND,
CALL HER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN ONE ZERO SEVEN
CRESTAR SIX TO RAISE YOUR HAND
EXCUSE ME PRESS STAR NINE TO
RAISE YOUR HAND.
>> YOU'RE ON THE CALL.
I DON'T SEE THIS CALLER ON LINE
OR OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KITTY
CON CALLER THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN THREE, FOUR, FIVE.
>> HI, THIS IS KITTY CALLING
FROM THE FIFTH WARD.
I WAS SHOCKED TO SEE THAT
COUNCILMAN BRURIAH IS ONCE
AGAIN ASKING TAXPAYERS TO SHELL
OUT BIG BUCKS FOR WHAT AMOUNTS
TO CAMPAIGN LITERATURE.
SHE IS ASKING FOR ANOTHER FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR WHAT SHE
CALLS EQUITABLE COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE COMMUNITY.
WHAT A JOKE.
NO, I HAVEN'T RECEIVED THE
MAILER YET BUT I'VE SEEN THOSE
AND SOME OF MY WARD ONE FRIENDS
HAVE RECEIVED AND THEY ARE FAR
FROM INFORMING
THEY LIST WITH
THE COUNCIL MEMBERS YOU AS
THEIR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND THEY
ASK CONSTITUENTS TO GOOGLE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LANCY PLAN
INSTEAD OF THESE PUFF PIECES
THE CITY SHOULD HAVE SENT
POSTCARDS TO EVERY RESIDENT
EARLY IN THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN UPDATE PROCESS.
I OBJECT TO MY TAX DOLLARS
BEING USED IN THIS WAY.
IT'S JUST UNSEEMLY.
PLEASE DO NOT APPROVE THIS
AMENDMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JESSICA
HENRY.
SHIRLEY
MAY OR THIS COLOR IS
NOT ONLINE
.
JESSICA HENRY
JAMES.
SHE'S NOW ONLINE MAYOR.
OH GOOD CALL OVER THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FOUR EIGHT
EIGHT FOUR STAR SIX ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
THANK YOU.
SAY HI.
THIS IS A LITTLE TECHNOLOGY.
MY NAME 1942.
>> OH YOU'LL WANT TO TURN THE
VOLUME DOWN ON YOUR CALL
OR
FOUR EIGHT EIGHT KOHAT OK THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
SO MANY.
I AM THE DEVELOPMENT MANAGER AT
A GREATER RATE.
I'M HERE TODAY TO SPEAK ON THE
RISING HOPE PROGRAM.
HOUSING IS A SERIOUS NECESSITY
FOR NOT ONLY OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS BUT ALSO OUR ECONOMY
AND THE LIVELIHOOD OF PEOPLE
THRIVING NOT ONLY FOR THE HOUSE
BUT FOR SO MANY INCARCERATED
INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE REALLY
STRUGGLED TO EVEN GET A SECOND
CHANCE AT LIFE SO MONEY THAT
GOES DIRECTLY TO SUPPORT THEM
ESPECIALLY SINCE THEN
HISTORICALLY WHEN THE SAME WAY
THEY COME ON THAT YOU KNOW, OUR
ECONOMY OUR COMMUNITY COMES ON
THAT AND WHEN WE HAVE BROKEN
HOMES AND BROKEN FAMILIES AND
OUR COMMUNITY FALLS SO WE HAVE
A SAFE PLACE TO CALL HOME THAT
ALLOWS YOU TO HAVE A SAFE
EMPLOYMENT, YOU KNOW, TAKE CARE
OF YOUR FAMILY, GO TO SCHOOL
WITHOUT YOUR DREAM IN LIFE.
SO I'M HERE TODAY TO SAY PLEASE
CONTINUE THE RISE AND
CO PROGRAM AND GIVE OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS A CHANCE AT
LIFE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LO
.
EVENING, THIS IS ALEX.
HELLO FROM WARD THREE.
OVER TWO DOZEN PEOPLE DIED THIS
WEEKEND PRIMARILY IN KENTUCKY
FROM SONGS BUT THESE ARE NOT
BLAMELESS DEATHS.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND
DONALD TRUMP AS THE HEAD OF IT
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR AT LEAST
SOME OF THESE DEATHS DUE TO THE
ADMINISTRATIVE CHOICES THEY
TOOK TO DAMAGE THE NATIONAL
WEATHER SERVICE.
HAD THE WEATHER SERVICE BEEN
PROPERLY STAFFED, THESE FOLKS
WOULD HAVE HAD SUFFICIENT
WARNING AND WOULD LIKELY STILL
BE ALIVE.
IN OTHER WORDS, I BELIEVE
DONALD TRUMP'S CRIMES
NEGLIGENCE KILLED PEOPLE IN
KENTUCKY THIS WEEKEND.
TONIGHT I ASK YOU TO SUPPORT
AMENDMENT TWO TO THE CITY'S
BUDGET SPONSORED BY OUR
COUNSEL'S OFFICE AWESOME ABC
COALITION.
IT'S A NECESSARY BUT NOT
SUFFICIENT STEP TOWARDS SAFETY
IN OUR CITY.
A ZERO DOLLAR LINE ITEM FOR
SAFETY FRANKLY OFFENSIVE THE
HALF MILLION DOLLARS PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TWO IS NOT ENOUGH BUT
IT IS A GOOD START AS FAR AS
I'M CONCERNED.
A VOTE AGAINST AMENDMENT TWO IS
A VOTE TO BE AS CULPABLE FOR
DEATHS ON OUR STREETS AS DONALD
TRUMP IS FOR THIS WEEKEND'S
DEATHS IN KENTUCKY.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBERS BRIGGS AND CORNELL FOR
JOINING US OUTSIDE THIS THE
CITY HALL THIS EVENING IN
MEMORY OF THE TWO PEOPLE WHO
WERE KILLED BY DRIVERS IN THE
LAST THREE WEEKS WITHIN 200
METERS OF THIS VERY ROOM.
I HOPE THE OTHER MEMBERS
OF CITY COUNCIL WILL JOIN US IN
FUTURE AS SADLY I DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT THIS WILL BE THE
LAST TIME WE LOSE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS DUE TO TRAFFIC VIOLENCE
SAFETY CANNOT WAIT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER HIGH
COUNCIL MEMBERS PETER HOUCK.
I'M ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION BUT TONIGHT I'M
SPEAKING FOR MYSELF.
I'M ALSO HERE WITH THE
COALITION OF GROUPS WALK BIKE
WASHTENAW BIKE ALLIANCE
WASHTENAW AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD
INSTITUTE AND THEN I'M ALSO
REPRESENTING MY ORGANIZATION
CRASHES IN ARBOR.
>> WE'RE HERE TO ASK YOU TO
MAKE FOUR CHANGES TO OUR
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
FIRSTLY, WE NEED YOU TO APPROVE
RECONFIGURING OUR STREETS THAT
ARE ALREADY IN OUR CONTROL.
WE ALSO ARE ASKING THAT YOU
COMPLETE THE TRUNK LINE
TRANSFER SO THAT WE CAN DECIDE
HOW OUR STREETS ARE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND WE CAN CHOOSE DESIGN
THAT ALIGN WITH OUR VALUES ALSO
WE WANT TO DEACTIVATE FLASHING
YELLOW ARROWS AT INTERSECTIONS
WHERE CONTROL TROLLS CAN'T
DETECT THAT A PEDESTRIAN IS
PRESENT.
>> AND LASTLY, WE WANT YOU TO
PLEASE APPROVE AMENDMENT TWO TO
FUND QUICK BUILD SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS FOR STREETS IN ANN
ARBOR LIKE STADIUM AND TO SLOW
TRAFFIC THERE.
SO THANK YOU.
AND COUNCIL MEMBERS BRIGGS,
KRIOL AND AKMAN FOR BRINGING
THAT FORTH.
REMEMBER THAT I WAS HERE IN
FRONT OF YOU TWO WEEKS AGO
ASKING YOU TO DISABLE FLASHING
YELLOW ARROWS AFTER A 68 YEAR
OLD MAN WAS INJURED AT THE
CORNER OF HURON AND DIVISION
PURANA DIVISION.
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S ONE OF THE ONE
OF THE INTERSECTIONS THAT
HASN'T YET HAD ITS FLASHING
YELLOW ARROW DISABLED LATER ON
THAT SAME NIGHT ROBERT MURRAY
WAS KILLED AT AN INTERSECTION
ALSO ON HERE ON TWO BLOCKS AWAY
TONIGHT WE NEED YOU TO REFUSE
TO ACCEPT AS NORMAL THAT PEOPLE
GET KILLED OR SERIOUSLY INJURED
WHILE CROSSING THE STREET.
IT'S NOT NORMAL AND TWO SERIOUS
CRASHES WITHIN ONE WEEK OF EACH
OTHER BOTH ON THE STREET IN
FRONT OF CITY HALL.
THAT'S JUST NOT NORMAL AND WE
NEED YOUR HELP TO FIX IT.
THANK YOU FOR REAFFIRMING YOUR
SUPPORT FOR AN ARBOR'S VISION.
ZERO GOALS IN APRIL.
NOW PLEASE TAKE THE NEXT STEP
AN APPROVED BUDGET AMENDMENT
TWO SO THAT WE CAN MAKE REAL
PROGRESS ON SLOWING SPEEDS AND
IMPROVING SAFETY ON THE STREETS
HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
GRISWOLD
.
GOOD EVENING.
CATHY GRISWOLD BORN TO.
FIRST I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
WHAT'S CALLED THE FOURTH AVENUE
STREET AND TRANSIT IMPROVEMENTS
.
THE CITY WAS AWARDED A TWO
HUNDRED DOLLAR GRANT AND THE
DESCRIPTION IS THIS
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT AIMS TO
ENHANCE USABILITY AND
ASSESSABLE ON FOURTH AVENUE
BETWEEN WILLIAM AND LIBERTY
STREET THAT IS A ONE BLOCK AREA
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND NO
PROBLEM.
BUT THEN YOU LOOK AT THE FINE
PRINT AND THIS PROJECT WHICH
ALSO HAS A LITTLE NICKNAME
BASED THE FAST PROJECT IS
ANTICIPATED TO COST MORE THAN
EIGHT MILLION EIGHT DOLLARS
MILLION FOR ONE BLOCK.
THIS SORT OF REINFORCES THAT
THE CITY LOVES PROJECTS.
I DON'T LOVE ONGOING
MAINTENANCE AND EVALUATION BUT
PROJECTS ARE COOL.
I APPRECIATE EVERYONE COMING
OUT TONIGHT AND REINFORCING
THAT WE HAVE A MAJOR
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY PROBLEM.
NO ONE HAS SAID IT MORE OFTEN
FOR LONGER THAN I HAVE.
I WANT TO REMIND THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS MOST OF WHOM WEREN'T
HERE THAT IN OCTOBER OF TWENTY
SIXTEEN A STUDENT WAS KILLED
CROSSING THE STREET A SCHOOL
CROSSWALK WHERE THE NEAREST
STREETLIGHT WAS ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY TWO FEET AWAY.
THE NEIGHBORS FORMED A GROUP TO
SAFE TRANSPORT.
IT WAS A SEA OF YELLOW SHIRTS.
I HEAR DOZENS DEMANDING THAT WE
IMPROVE
THE SCHOOL WALK ZONES
AND THAT WAS DONE.
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WERE SPENT
BUT WE'RE STILL HAVING DEATHS.
WHY?
>> WELL WE DON'T REALLY FOLLOW
VISION ZERO.
WE DON'T DO THE ENGINEERING.
WE DON'T DO THE EVALUATION AND
I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A FEW
EXAMPLES OF WHAT WE COULD DO
THAT WOULD COST ALMOST NOTHING
THAT WE'RE NOT DOING AND I
DON'T KNOW WHY THE FIRST ONE IS
SIGHTLINE OBSTRUCTIONS OBJECTS
AS WELL AS VEGETATION.
I WAS COMING HOME AND I SAW
ANGLAISE YOUR WAY THAT THE
TRAFFIC WAS ALL BACKED UP.
WHY?
BECAUSE THEY COULDN'T SEE DOWN
HERE ON PARKWAY BECAUSE THERE
WAS A TRAILER AND AN EXCAVATOR
IN THE RIGHT TURN LANE WHEN I
STOPPED AND EXPLAINED THAT TO
THEM NOT THAT IT WAS MY
RESPONSE ABILITY BUT I'M AFRAID
SOMEONE WAS GOING TO BE KILLED
AND ONE OF THE CONSTRUCTION
WORKERS WAS ACTUALLY STANDING
OUT IN THE MIDDLE OF HURON
PARKWAY DIRECTING TRAFFIC WHEN
I EXPLAINED THIS NEEDED TO STOP
THEY SHEEPISHLY SAID WELL
THAT'S HOW THE CITY WANTED THEM
TO CONFIGURE THEIR JOB SITE.
THIS IS A MAJOR PROBLEM SITE
LINES LIGHTING AT CROSSWALKS,
SIDEWALKS, NEW DEVELOPMENTS WE
NEED TO BE DOING A CRASH
ANALYSIS THANKS TO PETER HOPE
THE CITY NEEDS TO FOLLOW
THROUGH STANDARDS REGARDING
SIGNAGE SO I THINK YOU'VE GOT
AN IDEA OF SOME THINGS THAT
NEED TO BE DONE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SAM PULMAN
.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS SAM BOWMAN.
I LIVE AT FOURTEEN FIFTY ONE
COLOR IN WARD FOUR I'D SAY I
WANT TO DRAW CITY COUNCIL
ATTENTION TO A LESS DISCUSSED
PART OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
NAMELY THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
.
AS I UNDERSTAND IT IT WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE A STEP DOWN FROM
DOWNTOWN ZONING, A STEP UP FROM
RESIDENTIAL ZONING AND ZONING
ARTERIAL ROADS.
THIS WAS GOING TO INCLUDE
PLACES LIKE SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSES ALONG STADIUM AT PACARD.
IT WAS GOING TO BE THE OLD
FOURTH WARD LARGE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS LIKE PACKER BRO
THAT'S GOING UP I MEAN AND
RETAIL THAT JUST OFF ETC. IT'S
VERY BROAD USE OF LANE OR LANE
GROUPINGS BUT IT'S COHERENT
SEPARATELY.
THE PLAN PROPOSED BY THE
CONSULTANTS INCLUDED SOMETHING
CALLED A BUSINESS FLECK'S
DISTRICT AND THIS WOULD HAVE
FUNCTIONALLY BEEN OUR
INDUSTRIAL ZONING AND IT MAKES
IT ONE OF THE PRIMARY USES
OF ZONING IS TO KEEP INDUSTRIAL
AND RESIDENTIAL USES SEPARATE.
SO THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN S
INDUSTRIAL AND RESEARCH PARK
THAT WEIRD SLIVER OF LAND
BETWEEN THE DETROIT MAINLINE
AND THE FREEWAY ON RAMP THAT IS
NORTH MAIN STREET AND THIS
WOULD HAVE INCLUDED THINGS LIKE
MAN LUMBER, GROSS ELECTRIC, THE
ONE HUNDRED PHENIX DRIVE
BUILDING THE OLD BORDERS
HEADQUARTERS DOWN THERE,
SELF-STORAGE FACILITY SO ON AND
SO FORTH.
WHAT I WOULD DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO IS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION VOTED LAST
TO ABOLISH THE BUSINESS
DISTRICT ALTOGETHER AND FOLDED
INTO THE FLECK'S DISTRICT.
SO NOW WE HAVE A FLECK'S
DISTRICT AFTER A TRANSITION SO
WE HAVE A TRANSITION DISTRICT
THAT COVERS EVERYTHING FROM THE
OLD FOURTH WARD TO MASSIVE
OFFICE BUILDINGS, SELF-STORAGE
SITES, MARIJUANA GROW
FACILITIES, ET CETERA, ET
CETERA, ET CETERA.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION HAS
BEEN TREATING THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN AS A HOUSING ONLY
PLAN AND THEY ARE COMMITTED TO
GETTING HOUSING EVERYWHERE NO
MATTER COST.
PARTICULARLY CONCERNING TO ME
IS THAT AREA OF RESEARCH PARK
ANN ARBOR INDUSTRIAL PARK ALONG
STATE S8 STREET WOULD NOW
BECOME RESIDENTIAL.
THIS IS NOT AN APPROPRIATE
PLACE FOR HOUSING.
THERE ARE NO AMENITIES THERE.
THERE ARE NO SCHOOLS, NO PARKS
AND THE CITY WOULD NEED TO
BUILD A NEW PEDESTRIAN OVERPASS
OVER NINETY FOUR TO CONNECT
THOSE TWO AREAS TO DO EVEN
REMOTELY RESPONSIBLY.
SO I REALLY WANT TO ASK THE
COUNCIL TO DIRECT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO INCLUDE
NONRESIDENTIAL BUSINESS
DISTRICT FOR INDUSTRIAL USES
WITHIN THE PLAN LIKE YOU DID
WITH THE THIRTY FIVE FOOT
LIMIT.
IT MAKES SENSE.
CITIES NEED THINGS THAT ARE NOT
SIGHTLY OR PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
LIKE AMENABAR BUS LIKE THE BUS
DEPOT LIKE SELF-STORAGE MANY
PLACES FOR BUSINESSES TO SET UP
LARGE PLOTS OF LAND LIKE THAT
ARE GOOD TO SET ASIDE FOR
BUSINESS AND NOT BE SOLELY
DEPENDENT ON ONE EMPLOYER.
YEAH SO CITIES ARE MORE THAN
JUST HOUSING.
THEY ARE ALSO PLACES WHERE
BUSINESS GETS DONE AND WHERE
PEOPLE WORK.
SUBURBS ARE JUST FOR HOUSING SO
LET'S PLEASE KEEP IN OUR CITY
BY PRESERVING SOME INDUSTRIAL
ZONE WITHIN THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARIETTA
MACGRAW.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS MARIA TIM MCGRAW AND
I'M A PROSPECTIVE BUYER OF ONE
OF THE TOWN A CHURCH ROAD.
I CAME HERE TONIGHT TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT FOR EXPEDITING THE
NECESSARY APPROVALS SO THAT THE
NEW HOMES COULD BE BUILT WITH
WITH AND HOPEFULLY A REASONABLE
TIME FRAME NINE TO 12 MONTHS.
SO I FEEL VERY FORTUNATE AND
VERY EXCITED TO HAVE BEEN
SELECTED THROUGH THE LOTTERY
PROCESS TO BE A HOME BUYER
AFTER APPLYING FOR IT.
THIS OPPORTUNITY TO OWN A HOME
IN OUR CITY IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT TO ME AND TO MY
FAMILY.
I HAVE BEEN LIVING IN ANN ARBOR
FOR THE PAST TWENTY YEARS.
I HAVE BEEN WORKING AS A
TEACHER AT THE OVER PUBLIC
SCHOOLS SINCE 2010.
I'M A SINGLE PARENT AND MY
CHILD GOES TO A NUMBER
OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
I'M INVESTED IN OUR COMMUNITY
YET I HAVE BEEN RENTING FOR
MANY YEARS NOW UNABLE TO AFFORD
A HOME.
I WANT TO BUY A HOME HERE BUT
THE INCREASE IN PRICES IN THE
HOUSING MARKET, THE INCREASE IN
THE PROPERTY TAXES AND A LOWER
TEACHING SALARIES HAVE MADE IT
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO DO SO.
THE AGENCY TELL NEW HOMES
PROJECT IS SUCH A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY TO BUY A HOME HERE
AT AN AFFORDABLE PRICE IF NOT
FOR THIS PROJECT IN THE CURRENT
HOUSING MARKET I'M PROBABLY NOT
PRICED BY AT LEAST 100000
DOLLARS BY ROUGH ESTIMATE IF
LET'S SAY I WOULD LIKE TO
PURCHASE A 300000 DOLLAR HOME
WITH PROPERTY TAXES, INSURANCE
AND ALL THIS WOULD COST ME
ABOUT SIXTY FIVE TO SEVENTY OR
EVEN MORE OF MY MONTHLY TAKE
HOME PAYCHECK.
SO THE LOWER PRICE THAT I WOULD
PAY TO PURCHASE THE LITTLE TOWN
HALL PROVIDES ME WITH THE BATH
TO A MORE SECURE FUTURE FOR ME
AND MY DAUGHTER.
THEREFORE PLEASE SUPPORT THE
COMPLETION OF THAT ATUS HOUSING
PROJECT WITHIN A REASONABLE
TIME FRAME BY EXPEDITING ALL
NECESSARY APPROVALS AND PLEASE
CONSIDER MY PERSPECTIVE WHEN
MAKING DECISIONS ABOUT THE
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOSEN
SORBI.
ALSO FUNNY.
UNBELIEVABLE.
HELLO EVERYBODY.
I HEARD EVERYTHING YOU SAID AND
I AM APPALLED THAT YOU HAVE TO
COME HERE AND SAY THIS CITY
COUNCIL FOR HOUSING THIS CITY
COUNCIL SHOULD BE ASHAMED THAT
ITS TEACHERS CANNOT AFFORD THE
HOME.
YOU OUGHT TO HAVE PUBLIC
HOUSING, PUBLIC INVESTMENT IN
PUBLIC HOUSING THAT WOULD HOUSE
EVERYONE BUT YOU CHOOSE OVER
AND OVER AGAIN YOU'RE RICH
PEOPLE, FRIENDS WHO KEEP
PUTTING YOU IN YOUR SEATS SO
YOU CAN HELP THEM GET RICHER
AND IS NOT STUPID.
WE GET IT AND THE SHAME IS ON
YOU.
BUT I'M NOT HERE TO TALK ABOUT
THAT TODAY.
I AM HERE TO SAY THAT THIS CITY
COUNCIL AS CRUCIAL AS IT IS TO
ITS OWN CITIZENS BY NOT HELPING
THEM OF A HOUSE THEY ARE MORE
CRUCIAL TO PEOPLE OF PALESTINE
.
I HAVE BROUGHT RESOLUTIONS TO
THIS BODY, THIS DESPICABLE,
SHAMEFUL BODY FOR YEARS ASKING
THEM TO PLEASE PASS A
RESOLUTION THAT SAYS CUT OFF
MILITARY AID TO THE APARTHEID
GENOCIDAL STATE OF ISRAEL AND
THEY HAVE DONE NOT THINK THEIR
SILENCE SUPPORTS THE GENOCIDE
IN PALESTINE.
I HAVE SEEN BOMBED HOMES, HOMES
THAT PEOPLE HAVE MADE WITH
THEIR TEARS AND ISRAEL IS
BOMBING IT TO SMITHEREENS.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS ARE
KILLED EVERY DAY WITH YOUR
TAXES IF YOU HAVE AN OUNCE
OF HUMANITY PASS MY RESOLUTION,
CUT OFF MILITARY AID TO THAT
BORDER STATE THAT'S ISRAEL.
DO SOMETHING FOR YOUR PEOPLE.
BUILD PUBLIC HOUSING FOR
MOTHERS IN YOUR TOWN.
EITAN, HAVE A HOME.
SHAME ON YOU.
THERE'S NOTHING I CAN SAY TO
YOU.
SHAMEFUL BEASTS WHO WILL DO
NOTHING TO SAVE PEOPLE NOT DO
NOTHING TO SAVE PEOPLE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
YOU ARE SHAMEFUL.
YOU ARE BARBARIA AND I CANNOT
SCREAM HARD AT ALL.
I WOULD BE BECAUSE THAT
GENOCIDE IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW
IN PALESTINE.
LITTLE BABIES ARE STARVING TO
DEATH AND YOU SIT AND STARE AND
LAUGH AT ME.
YOU SHAMEFUL BEAST, YOU
SHAMEFUL BEAST.
CHILDREN ARE BURNING TO DEATH.
PEOPLE ARE TRAMPLING EACH OTHER
OVER SCRAPS THAT GETS THANK
YOU.
SHAME ON YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN
.
>> PASS THE RESOLUTION PASS THE
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
WE HAVE BEEN DEMANDING A
RESOLUTION IN THE CITY COUNCIL
FOR TWENTY TWO YEARS.
>> THIS ROOM IS FILLED WITH
PEOPLE WHO ARE REALLY OUTRAGED
THAT TWELVE PERSONS I BELIEVE
TWELVE PERSONS HAVE BEEN
INJURED OR KILLED IN ANN ARBOR
STREETS IN THE LAST YEAR.
>> AND YOU'RE RIGHT.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
WELL THEY SHOULD BE A THOUSAND
TIMES MORE OUTRAGED AND THIS
CITY COUNCIL SHOULD BE A
THOUSAND TIMES MORE OUTRAGED
THAT YOU'RE TAX DOLLARS ARE
KILLING AND INJURING UPWARDS
OF TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE
IN PALESTINE RIGHT NOW,
PRIMARILY IN THE GAZA STRIP,
UPWARDS OF TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
PEOPLE YOU ARE INJURING AND
KILLING WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS,
YOUR U.S. TAX DOLLARS AND YOU
ARE PRETENDING TO CARE ABOUT
TWELVE PEDESTRIANS WHO HAVE
BEEN INJURED ON THE STREETS
OF ANN ARBOR.
YOU ARE PRETENDING YOU KNOW
THAT'S TRAFFIC VIOLENCE AND IT
MUST BE STOPPED.
OK, THAT'S FINE.
I'M NOT GOING TO ARGUE WITH
THAT.
>> BUT YOU'RE INFLICTING REAL
VIOLENCE ON UPWARDS OF TWO
HUNDRED THOUSAND PALESTINIANS
THAT YOU ARE KILLING WITH YOUR
TAX DOLLARS.
PRESIDENT BIDEN DID IT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS DOING IT.
THE TOP LEADERSHIP OF YOUR
PARTY.
THE DEMOCRATS ARE DOING IT.
THE TOP LEADERSHIP OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY IS DOING IT
BUT THE PEOPLE ARE AGAINST THAT
GENOCIDE, ESPECIALLY YOUR
PROGRESSIVE VOTER BASE IS
AGAINST THAT GENOCIDE THAT
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING AGAINST
THE PEOPLE OF PALESTINE AND I
DON'T SEE HOW YOU THINK YOU'RE
GOING TO KEEP GETTING ELECTED
AND REELECTED WITHOUT THAT
PROGRESSIVE VOTER BASE YOU'RE
GOING TO CHANGE WHETHER YOU
LIKE IT OR NOT OR YOUR
PROGRESSIVE VOTER BASE IS GOING
TO THROW YOU OUT OF OFFICE FACE
FIRST
.
>> HOW MUCH DISDAIN DO YOU HAVE
FOR YOUR OWN PROGRESSIVE VOTER
BASE WHO HATES THIS GENOCIDE
THAT ISRAEL IS COMMITTING ON
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE WITH
YOUR TAX DOLLARS?
WELL, HERE'S A CLUE.
MAYOR TAYLOR PUBLICLY RAN A
PRAYER FOR THE STATE OF ISRAEL
.
>> HE PUBLICLY RAN A PRAYER FOR
THE STATE OF ISRAEL.
THAT'S HOW MUCH DISDAIN THE
CITY COUNCIL HAS FOR THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
BUT YOU WILL CHANGE LISTEN TO
YOUR BASE, LISTEN TO USE WE
HAVE NOW EXCEEDED FORTY FIVE
MINUTES OF PUBLIC COMMENT AT
THE BEGINNING OF OUR MEETING
THOSE WHO HAVE SIGNED UP FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT AND WHO HAVE NOT
YET HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOWN ARE THEIR
COMMUNICATION TODAY FROM
COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
SO I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
CAME OUT FOR THE WARD ONE
COFFEE OUR LAST WEEK THERE WERE
A BUNCH OF PEOPLE IN THE ROOM
WE DIDN'T COUNT BUT I THINK
THERE ARE ABOUT 30 OR SO AND WE
HAD A GREAT CHAT ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LANDY'S PLAN.
I'D LIKE TO LET EVERYONE KNOW
THAT NEXT WEEK IS A TWO ZERO
WEEK OR NOT NEXT WEEK I'M SO
SORRY JUNE 1ST TO JUNE 7TH IS A
TWO ZERO WEEK.
>> WE STILL HAVE SOME MORE
OF MEH TO ENJOY AND IT'S GOING
TO IT LOOKS TO BE EVEN MORE FUN
THAN EVER.
YOU CAN LEARN HOW TO DYE
CLOTHES.
JOIN IN CHICAGO BIKE RALLY
TASTES DELICIOUS FOOD AND
ATTEND AWARD PARTIES.
WARD ONE'S PARTY IS JUNE 6TH
530 TO 730 AT LESLEY PARK THERE
WILL BE A CLOTHING SWAP BRING
FIVE ITEMS, TAKE FIVE ITEMS OR
DON'T TAKE JUST BRING.
I REGRET THAT I WILL BE MISSING
OUT ON THE FUN.
I HAVE LONG BEEN SCHEDULED TO
BE OUT OF TOWN FOR THAT DAY.
>> I WANTED TO LET EVERYONE IN
THIS ROOM KNOW THAT ON JUNE 4TH
AT SIX P.M. WE ASSUME THERE
WILL BE A CITIZEN PARTIES
PATIENT MEETING FOR THREE FIFTY
S FIFTH WHICH MANY OF YOU THINK
OF AS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROJECT GOING UP ON THE OLD
WILLOTT AND I WANT YOU TO HOLD
TIGHTLY TO YOUR SEATS BECAUSE
THE AMAZING NEWS ABOUT THIS
PROJECT IS THAT IT INCLUDES 330
APARTMENTS, ALL OF WHICH WILL
BE AFFORDABLE FOR PEOPLE WITH A
MIX OF INCOMES BETWEEN 30
PERCENT AND 80 PERCENT
OF AMIDE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR TAXING
YOURSELVES TO CREATE PLACES FOR
PEOPLE TO LIVE THAT ARE IN THE
CENTER OF OUR CITY AND THAT ARE
WALKABLE AND BREAKABLE.
>> I'M GRATEFUL.
I ALSO WANT TO NOTE IF ANYONE
IS A NEW YORK TIMES READER IN
THE BUSINESS SECTION WHICH IS
NOT THE FIRST THING I LOOK AT
THERE WAS AN AMAZING STORY
ABOUT ARGUS FARM.
>> STOP THAT MADE IT VERY CLEAR
HOW LUCKY AND UNIQUE A PLACE,
HOW LUCKY WE ARE TO HAVE SUCH A
UNIQUE PLACE IN ANN ARBOR AND
ALSO TALKED REALLY ABOUT THE
ROLE THAT THAT PLAYS NOT ONLY
IN FEEDING US ALL WELL BUT IN
SUPPORTING LOCAL FARMERS AND
THE NUMBER OF FARMERS IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY HAS ACTUALLY
INCREASED.
SO LUCKY FOR US THERE WILL
ALWAYS BE PLENTY OF DELICIOUS
FOOD TO EAT.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO THANK CHIEF ANDERSON
FOR UPDATING THE ANN ARBOR
ABEED TRAFFIC STOP POLICY TO
ALIGN WITH THE INTENT OF THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE.
>> HIS POLICY STATEMENT MAKES
IT CLEAR THAT OFFICERS SHOULD
NOT INITIATE STOPS BASED ON
MULTIPLE MINOR NON SAFETY
RELATED EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS
UNLESS ONE OF THE SPECIFIC
EXCEPTIONS RELATED TO CRIMINAL
ACTIVITY APPLIES.
>> THIS CLARIFICATION REINFORCE
THE ORDINANCE PURPOSE AND
ADDRESSES UNINTENTIONAL
CONFUSION LEADING TO CONSISTENT
ENFORCEMENT MOVING FORWARD.
>> AND THAT KIND OF CLARITY
MATTERS BECAUSE FOR FAR TOO
LONG VAGUE OR OVERLY BROAD
ENFORCEMENT POLICIES HAVE
CREATED OPPORTUNITIES FOR
UNEQUAL TREATMENT.
THE ABILITY TO USE A BROKEN
TAILLIGHT OR EXPIRED TAGS AS A
PRETEXT STOP HAS NEVER BEEN
APPLIED EQUALLY.
IT HAS OFTEN FUNCTIONED AS A
QUIET GATEKEEPING TOOL ONE THAT
SENDS A MESSAGE ABOUT WHO IS
TRULY WELCOME AND WHO'S BEING
WATCHED.
THAT'S WHY THIS MOVEMENT
DESERVES REFLECTION BECAUSE THE
WAY WE ENFORCE LAWS AND THE WAY
WE SELECTIVELY PROTECT OR
PUNISH HAS ALWAYS SHAPED WHO IS
ALLOWED TO BELONG.
>> JUST A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO WE
MARK THE ANNIVERSARIES OF TWO
TURNING POINTS IN THAT ONGOING
FIGHT ON MAY 17TH, 1954, BROWN
VS. BOARD DECLARED SCHOOL
SEGREGATION UNCONSTITUTIONAL
YESTERDAY MARKED THE 1896
PLESSY VS. FERGUSON DECISION
WHICH UPHELD THE LIE
OF SEPARATE BUT EQUAL.
>> BUT IN BETWEEN THOSE TWO
RULINGS WITH SOMETHING EVEN
MORE POWERFUL A MOVEMENT BLACK
AMERICANS USED EVERY TOOL THEY
HAD LAWSUITS, JOURNALISM
ORGANIZING NOT JUST TO
CHALLENGE UNJUST SYSTEMS BUT TO
DEMAND THAT THEIR CITIZENSHIP,
DIGNITY AND PRESENCE BE HONORED
IN FULL.
THEY UNDERSTOOD THAT BELONGING
ISN'T WITHOUT PHYSICAL PRESENCE
OR LEGAL STATUS.
IT'S ABOUT PROTECTION.
IT'S ABOUT HAVING YOUR HUMANITY
RESPECTED IN POLICY AND
ENFORCEMENT AND THE EVERYDAY
DECISIONS MADE BY INSTITUTIONS
.
>> THESE ANNIVERSARIES REMIND
US THAT THE QUESTION OF WHO
COUNTS, WHO IS PROTECTED,
INCLUDED AND CENTERED IS NOT A
SETTLED ISSUE.
IT SHOWS UP AND HOW WE WRITE
OUR ORDINANCES, HOW WE
INTERPRET THEM AND HOW WE
DECIDE WHOSE SAFETY MATTERS
BELONGING REQUIRES REJECTING
THE IDEA THAT ANYONE WHO
DOESN'T FIT THE IDEAL IS
DISPOSABLE AND EVERY TIME WE
CHOOSE COMFORT OVER JUSTICE,
EGO OVER REPAIR WE'RE JUST
STANDING STILL ON SOMEONE ELSE
IS SUFFERING.
WE'RE QUIETLY REWRITING WHO
BELONGS AND WHO DOESN'T.
>> AND WHEN WE DO THAT WE'RE
FAILING COUNCIL MEMBER IHR
.
I DON'T I DON'T RELISH
FOLLOWING THAT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
I JUST WANT TO TAKE A MOMENT TO
TO TALK ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
BEING WIDELY DISCUSSED IN OUR
COMMUNITY THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN UPDATE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE JUST TUNING
INTO IT AND SO WHEN CITY
COUNCIL LAUNCHED THE LAND USE
PLAN UPDATE IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE WE DID IT WITH A CLEAR
GOAL TO OPEN UP MORE HOUSING
OPTIONS ACROSS THE CITY
INCLUDING IN NEIGHBORHOODS LONG
DESIGNATED FOR SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING ONLY THE STATUS QUO
ISN'T WORKING NOT FOR YOUNG
PEOPLE LOOKING FOR A PLACE THEY
CAN AFFORD, NOT FOR OLDER
RESIDENTS LOOKING TO STAY IN
THE COMMUNITY AND DOWNSIZE AND
NOT FOR WORKERS AND FAMILIES
WHO ARE COMPETING FOR TOO FEW
HOMES.
OVER THE YEARS I'VE HAD
COUNTLESS CONVERSATIONS WITH
WITH MY CONSTITUENTS, WITH
RESIDENTS ABOUT THIS.
MANY ARE FRUSTRATED WHEN THEY
SEE EXPENSIVE BIG HOMES GET
BUILT FOR ONE FAMILY WHEN
INSTEAD WE COULD HAVE A DUPLEX
OR TRIPLEX THAT MAKE SPACE OR
MORE.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT HIGH
RISES IN NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT REASONABLE
OPTIONS THAT RESPECT THE FABRIC
OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> SOME FOLKS, AS I SAID, ARE
JUST TUNING NOW AND WONDERING
WHY THIS PROCESS STARTED OUT
WITH THE ASSUMPTION THAT WE
WOULD REMOVE EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING.
THE ANSWER IS SIMPLE THAT WITH
OUR POLICY DIRECTIVE FROM THE
BEGINNING COUNCIL PASSED
RESOLUTION IN TWENTY THREE
LAYING OUT WHAT WE WANTED THE
PLAN TO DO.
IT CALLED FOR MORE HOMES AND
MORE DENSITY AND SINGLE FAMILY
AREAS FEWER MORE FLEXIBLE
ZONING CATEGORIES LAND USE
ALIGNED WITH OUR EU ZERO
CLIMATE GOALS AND A COMMITMENT
TO REPAIR HARM CAUSED BY
EXCLUSIONARY POLICIES.
THAT'S A WORK THAT'S UNDERWAY
NOW WE'RE LIVING EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING IS THE RIGHT THING TO
DO.
IT'S HOW WE BEGIN TO UNDO
DECADES OF HOUSING POLICY THAT
SHUT PEOPLE OUT ESPECIALLY
BLACK AND BROWN FAMILIES AND
KEPT NEIGHBORHOODS EXCLUSIVE BY
DESIGN.
IT'S ALSO HOW WE BUILD A FUTURE
WHERE MORE PEOPLE CAN LIVE HERE
NOT JUST THOSE WITH THE MOST
RESOURCES.
THIS ISN'T JUST AN ANN HARBOR
CONVERSATION.
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
DEMOCRATS ARE CALLING FOR AN
END TO EXCLUSIONARY ZONING.
BUT BIDEN HARRIS ADMINISTRATION
ENCOURAGED ELIZABETH WARREN HAS
INTRODUCED LEGISLATION TO
SUPPORT CITIES THAT MAKE THIS
CHANGE.
AOC EVEN ASKED CANDIDATES
SEEKING HER SUPPORT AND
ENDORSEMENT TO COMMIT TO ZONING
REFORM EVEN WHEN IT'S
POLITICALLY DIFFICULT.
MEANWHILE, DONALD TRUMP ON THE
OTHER HAND, HAS PROPOSED TO
SAVE THE SUBURBS BY PROTECTING
SINGLE FAMILY ZONING PROJECT.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CALLED ON
THE NEXT REPUBLICAN
ADMINISTRATION TO DO THE SAME.
THAT'S THE DIVIDING LINE.
DO WE MAKE ROOM OR DO WE KEEP
SHUTTING PEOPLE OUT HERE IN ANN
ARBOR WE'RE CHOOSING TO MAKE
MORE ROOM WHILE WE'RE MOVING.
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING IS A CLEAR
GOAL.
THE DETAILS HOW IT GETS PLAYED
OUT IN DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS
IN THE NEXT PHASE WHEN WE
UPDATE THE ZONING
CODE IN TWENTY TWENTY SIX I
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO GET
INVOLVED BOTH NOW WITH THE COMP
PLAN AND THEN THANK YOU
COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
>> IT'S SPRING IS MY ALLERGIES
CAN ATTEST AND I WANTED TO DRAW
ATTENTION TO A PROGRAM THAT THE
CITY HAS ENDS ON MAY 31ST TO
GET REBATES ON ELECTRIC LAWN
EQUIPMENT SUCH AS LEAF BLOWERS
AND LAWN MOWERS AND THESE ARE
APPLICABLE TO ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS AS WELL AS LOCAL
LANDSCAPING BUSINESSES AND IT'S
THROUGH PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
CITY GRANGER INDUSTRIAL SUPPLY
AND LANGATA.
SO YOU CAN FIND MORE DETAILS
ABOUT THE EQUIPMENT THAT
QUALIFIES THE DISCOUNT AMOUNTS
AND HOW TO PARTICIPATE.
IF YOU LOOK UP ANN ARBOR GAS
LEAF BLOWER PHASE-OUT IT'S ON
THAT PAGE SECOND WE ANNOUNCED A
COUPLE OF MEETINGS AGO THE CITY
HAD TO ISSUE A STOP WORK ORDER
AT OUR FEDERAL SAFE STREETS FOR
ALL GRANT WORK AND THROUGH THE
BUDGET RESPONSE PROCESS, STAFF
RECENTLY INFORMED US THAT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW THAT WAS
THE HOLD UP FOR THIS PROJECT
HAS BEEN CLEARED AND THAT THE
WORK WILL NOW MOVE FORWARD.
SO AS A REMINDER THE PROJECTS
THAT ARE GOING TO BE FUNDED
UNDER THIS INCLUDE BUFFORD BIKE
LANE PROTECTION AND OUR
INTERSECTION SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS AND SOME SPEED
MANAGEMENT UPGRADES IN MULTIPLE
LOCATIONS ACROSS THE CITY WHICH
I'M VERY GLAD CAN MOVE FORWARD
TO ADVANCE OUR GOALS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL, I
WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO THANK CHIEF
ANDERSON WHO WAS HERE A LITTLE
WHILE AGO AND CHIEF KENNEDY FOR
A REALLY WONDERFUL OPEN HOUSE
BETWEEN THE POLICE SHARED OPEN
HOUSE BETWEEN THE POLICE AND
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT THIS
WEEKEND.
IT WAS A REALLY INCREDIBLE
COMMUNITY EVENT.
IT WAS REALLY FUN TO SEE A LOT
OF FAMILIES OUT THERE.
I CAN TELL YOU MY FAMILY WAS
TORN BETWEEN THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT'S HOT DOGS AND THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT'S LIVE DOG
RASCOE AND WHAT WAS MORE FUN
BUT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I
THINK IS IS REALLY A GREAT WAY
TO GET OUR COMMUNITY AWARE
OF JUST EVERYTHING THAT BOTH
DIVISIONS OF OUR PUBLIC SAFETY
DEPARTMENT DO, HOW HARD THEY
WORK AND THE FINE MEN AND WOMEN
AND FOLKS WHO STAFF THOSE
TEAMS.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
HOSPITALITY TO BOTH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT, THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
AND I WANTED TO MENTION QUICKLY
THAT JUNE 1ST IS YOUR CHANCE TO
SAVOR THE FLAVOR DOWNTOWN WITH
TASTE OF VANDIVER.
IT'S VERY EXCITING.
IT'S A VERY FUN EVENT, FAMILY
FRIENDLY RUNS FROM 11:00 A.M.
TO FIVE P.M. THERE WILL BE LIVE
MUSIC ALL THROUGHOUT DOWNTOWN
MAIN STREET FROM 12 TO FIVE
P.M. THAT DAY.
THERE ARE TWENTY ONE LOCAL
RESTAURANTS THAT ARE
PARTICIPATING SO ALL OF THE
RESTAURANTS IN AND AROUND
DOWNTOWN EVERYTHING FROM
WASHTENAW DARY TO SOME OF YOUR
MOST FAVORITE BARS ARE ALL
GOING TO BE REPRESENTED ON THE
STREET SHOWING OFF WHAT THEY DO
BEST OFFERING THEIR HOSPITALITY
BACK OUT INTO THE COMMUNITY ON
THE STREET, ACTIVATING OUR
DOWNTOWN STREETS WILL BE
CLOSED.
IT'S A REALLY LIVELY EVENT AND
I HOPE THAT YOU AND YOUR
FAMILIES WILL JOIN ME THERE.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, I'D
LIKE TO THANK THE RESIDENTS WHO
CAME OUT TO SEE HIM.
ALEX AND MY COFFEE ARE ON MAY
10TH.
>> WE REALLY APPRECIATE HEARING
THE FEEDBACK.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO MAKE AN
ANNOUNCEMENT ON BEHALF OF OUR
ANN ARBOR COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
.
THE COUNTY WILL BE HOSTING AN
OLDER ADULTS VILLAGE LISTENING
SESSION ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5TH
FROM FIVE TO SEVEN P.M. AT THE
ANN ARBOR SENIOR CENTER IN
BYRNES PARK.
DETAILS ARE STILL BEING
FINALIZED BUT WE EXPECT
COMMISSIONER SCOTT ROBBY AND
LEBAR TO BE IN ATTENDANCE
ALONGSIDE WARD THREE COUNCIL
MEMBERS GAZY EDWYN AND WE'RE
DENHA AND DENHA AND MYSELF AS
PARKE'S LIAISON'S BECAUSE THE
SENIOR CENTER IS STAFFED BY
PARK STAFFERS.
>> WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE AND
PLEASE STAY TUNED FOR AN
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT FROM THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL ON MAY
FIVE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE TO THE
ANN ARBOR PUBLIC ART COMMISSION
JOHN KOTOWSKI TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AREA RESIDENT
INSOLVENCY COUNSEL JILLIAN
MAYS, BERNAT BERNET TO THE
HOUSING COMMISSION, DEVIN
KILPATRICK TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
MELODY MCNICHOLAS FREDERICK M.
HALL TO THE NEIGHBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
MICHAEL FLEMING TO THE ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC ART COMMISSION.
PEGGY ARE LEONARD TO THE
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS
ROBERT HART HUGH FLAC DAVID
ARNS DOOR TO THE CABLE
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
ZACHARY DAMON TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION ONE MIEULI
SARAH HAMMERSCHMIDT ELLIOTT
ABRAMS THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES, KATHLEEN
MOSADDEQ, LARRY KEYLA AND ALEX
GOSSAGE.
SO THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY A NICHOLS ANGELA
JACKSON, ELIZABETH BERRY TO THE
ELIZABETH DEAN FUND COMMITTEE
LYNNE NABLE BROOKS CURTIS
SAMUEL ROSE QUICK TO THE
EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MARK FOSTER
TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION.
MIKE BERKOWITZ TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
>> DAVID ROSSLYN CATHERINE
FORTNER TO THE HOUSING BOARD
OF APPEALS JERRY SHULTZ TIM
DERMAN TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION LINDA WINKLER AND
ELAINE KITA COWAN TO THE HURON
RIVER WATERSHED COUNCIL.
RICHARD NORTON TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION.
TEACHER MAKHANYA TO RECREATION
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
>> HANNAH KHARI TO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION.
CHRIS BODEY ROSS ANITA
RATCLIFFE KIMBERLY PITTS TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION ONE
LULY BRETT HOW TO MARKET TO THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
PATRICIA MAKOWSKI TODD GRANT
OF THE MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE APPOINTMENTS MADE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION WELL IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSE THE APPOINTMENTS ARE
APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO OUR CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNEALIOUS
TAKEN BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION CONSENT AGENDA ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE CONSENT
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE NOW COME TO OUR ONE
PUBLIC HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
TO PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES TO SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES BOTH HERE AND ONLINE
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS.
>> REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE.
>> CONCLUDING REMARKS AND SEE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE ONE
ONE FIVE FIVE ARLINGTON
BOULEVARD ANNEXATION POINT NINE
ACRES ONE ONE FIVE FIVE
ARLINGTON BOULEVARD.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
?
I DO NOT SEE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE FOR THE HEARING
SEE IN
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE A FOREST THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES OF MAY
FIVE.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE EMOTIONAL
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MASS
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN RAWAT'S AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
ON DAVOR OPPOSED THE MINUTES
ARE APPROVED SEE ONE AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION FIVE TWO NINE
NINE BE OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
BANABA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> I'VE HAVE BEEN SECOND BY
COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE COUNCILOR IN
BRITISH SO THIS ORDINANCE
AMENDMENT IS IN FRONT OF US
BECAUSE OF THE DECEMBER 23,
2003 REPORT ENTITLED A NEW
APPROACH TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
THAT APPROACH OR THAT REPORT
ADVISED COUNCIL ON HOW THE CITY
COULD BECOME MORE EFFECTIVE AT
ACADEMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MORE
EFFICIENT AT PURSUING IT
IN
ALIGNMENT WITH VALUES SUCH AS
SUSTAINABILITY AND HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY.
SO THAT REPORT TRANSLATED INTO
SEVERAL RESOLUTIONS THAT CITY
STAFF HAVE BEEN WORKING HARD TO
IMPLEMENT SINCE WE PASSED THEM
ON TO APRIL 1ST.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THE
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT BEFORE US
TONIGHT SUPPORTS HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY BY ELIMINATING
LAND DIVISION NOTIFICATIONS
PUBLIC NOTIFICATIONS.
>> NOW I WANT TO MAKE CLEAR
THAT THIS IS NOT A ROLL BACK
OF AN OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE
MEANINGFUL FEEDBACK.
THE CITY IS REQUIRED UNDER
STATE LAW TO APPROVE LAND
DIVISIONS SO THERE IS NO
DISCRETION FOR THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION NOR FOR THE
COUNCIL.
>> SO BECAUSE THERE IS NO
DISCRETION THESE NOTIFICATIONS
SERVE NO REAL PURPOSE IN THE
APPROVAL PROCESS AND THEY MAY
CAUSE FRUSTRATION WHEN PEOPLE
RECEIVE A NOTICE SHOW UP FOR A
MEETING, SPEAK ON AN ITEM WHEN
NEITHER CBC NOR COUNCIL HAS ANY
DISCRETION.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE VOTING ON
NOT A ROLLBACK OF COMMUNITY
COMMENT OR INFLUENCE BUT
COMPLETELY UNDERSTANDABLE
STREAMLINING OF THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS.
>> SO I HOPE PEOPLE WILL JOIN
ME IN SUPPORTING FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL RACHMAN I'M
SORRY THAT I DID NOT SUBMIT
THIS QUESTION SO I'M HOPING
THAT STAFF OR COUNCIL MEMBERS
COULD EASILY ANSWER HOW WOULD
SO IT SEEMS LIKE THE ONLY
PURPOSE OF THIS WOULD SERVE IS
AWARENESS.
HOW WOULD PEOPLE BECOME AWARE
OF THIS IN THE ABSENCE OF THIS
ORDINANCE SECTION?
>> I BELIEVE THAT ON SITE
SIGNAGE IS PROPOSED FOR ANY
KIND OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGARDLESS WHETHER THERE'S A
PUBLIC HEARING OR PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD ATTACHED TO IT
OR NOT.
BUT I UNDERSTAND THAT SOME
OF THOSE DETAILS ARE BEING
WORKED OUT BY STAFF AND I'M
GOOD.
>> I SEE I SEE MR LEO COMING ON
TO CLARIFY.
THANK YOU PROMOTED I UNDERSTOOD
THAT THE QUESTION WAS HOW WOULD
PEOPLE BE BECOME AWARE OF OF
DIVISIONS?
THEY THERE WILL BE NO
NOTIFICATION SENT OUT BY THE
CITY.
THEY THEY WOULD HAVE TO PAY
ATTENTION TO WHAT THEIR
NEIGHBORS ARE DOING OR THEY
WOULD HAVE TO BE ON TOP
OF APPLICATIONS THAT COME INTO
THE CITY.
WHAT STATE LAND DIVISION ACT IS
PRETTY CLEAR THAT ALLOWS
COUNCILS OF A CERTAIN SIZE TO
BE MADE.
>> THEY CALL IT A PARCEL AND
YOU CAN MAKE UP TO FOUR CHILD
PARCELS AND A TEN YEAR PERIOD
AND YOU CAN DO THIS OUTSIDE
OF THE PLANNING OR SUBDIVISION
ACT IN THIS CASE STATE LAW
TREATS STATE LAW TREATS RAJVIR
TOWNSHIPS AND CITIES THE SAME
AND GIVES THE SAME LAND
DIVISION RIGHTS TO EACH AND IT
SAYS VERY CLEARLY THAT LAND
DIVISIONS SHALL BE APPROVED IF
THEY MEET THE CITY'S ZONING AND
THE CITY'S ACCESS REQUIREMENTS
AND FOR THIS REASON THERE IT IS
SIMPLY AN ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCESS.
SUBMIT YOUR PAPERWORK, SUBMIT
YOUR SERVICE AND IT IS APPROVED
BY THE CITY.
WE NO LONGER DO PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
WE NO LONGER SEND THEM TO
PLANNING MISSION AND THERE IS
NO NOTIFICATION THAT WE DO FOR
THIS ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTION.
>> THANK
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPOINT ROZANNE BLUMER KATE
LARAMIE D'HIVER ARMSTRONG TO
THE GREENBELT ADVISORY
COMMISSION MOVI COUNCIL MEMBER
MALLIK SECOND ACCOUNT NO DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE OR
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.
THE SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO REAPPOINT STEPHEN BROWN TO
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ALSO BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HIGHER DISCUSSION BOARDS
OF DC TWO ALL FAVOR OPPOSED IT
APPROVED DC THREE RESOLUTION TO
REAPPOINT ERIKA LU AND RANDY
MILGRIM TO THE INDEPENDENT
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
REVIEW BY COUNCILOR HARRISON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE.
>> A DC THREE ALL IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED DC FOR
RESOLUTION TO REAPPOINT NON
REGISTERED ELECTORS TO THE ANN
ARBOR BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI
EDWIN SECOND ACCOUNTS NO READ
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
FOR ONE FAVOR OR OPPOSED IS
APPROVE THE ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT THUS SATISFYING
THE SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC
FIVE RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
SARAH FULLER TO THE ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC ART COMMISSION AS A NON
REGISTERED ELECTOR MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN CORNELL SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC FIVE IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IS APPROVED
OF THE SEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT THUS SATISFYING THE
SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC SIX
RESOLUTION TO ALLOCATE FUNDS
FOR SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER
TREATMENT AND INTERVENTION
PROGRAMS MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC SIX COUNCIL MCCRINDLE.
>> THANK YOU.
FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER PRIGS GHAZI
EDWYN, COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
AND COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON FOR
COSPONSORING THIS RESOLUTION.
WE KNOW THAT SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER IS A SIGNIFICANT
HEALTH PROBLEM PUBLIC HEALTH
ISSUE.
IT AFFECTS NOT ONLY OUR
FAMILIES, OUR COMMUNITIES, OUR
SCHOOLS, OUR WORKFORCE.
IT HAS A TREMENDOUS IMPACT ON
THE HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF OUR
NEIGHBORS BY ALLOCATING FUNDING
FOR SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER,
TREATMENT AND PREVENTION WE CAN
GET AHEAD OF THIS PROBLEM IN
SOME WAYS AND WHEN WE CANNOT WE
ARE ABLE TO OFFER TREATMENT TO
THOSE NOT ONLY WHO CAN AFFORD
IT BUT THOSE WHO MIGHT NOT BE
COMFORTABLE ASKING FOR IT IN
PART OF LARGER PROBLEMS THE
MORE COMPLEX ISSUES THAT THEY
FACE IN THEIR LIVES.
THIS TO ME FEELS LIKE NOT ONLY
A NO BRAINER BUT SOMETHING THAT
ISN'T COMPLETELY COMPASSIONATE
AND WITHIN OUR COMMUNITIES
ADDRESSES SIGNIFICANT ISSUES
THAT HAVE, AS I MENTIONED,
IMPACT ON EVERYTHING FROM
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ISSUES TO
OUR TAX DOLLARS AS IT RELATES
TO PUBLIC SERVICES, PUBLIC
SAFETY.
>> RESPONDING TO THESE CALLS WE
KNOW THAT AN OUNCE
OF PREVENTION GOES A LONG WAY
IN GENERAL AND IN THIS REGARD I
FEEL AS THOUGH IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO ADDRESS
THIS ISSUE IN A LOT OF OTHER
ISSUES THAT RELATE AND
CORRELATE TO IT.
SO I'M HOPING THAT MY
COLLEAGUES HERE WILL JOIN ME
AND BE SUPPORTIVE OF THIS
RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
RADIO.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I KNOW THAT I'VE SPOKEN ABOUT
THIS BEFORE IN PARTICULAR WHEN
WHILE WE SAW SOME OF THESE CUTS
COME DOWN FROM THE FEDERAL
LEVEL AND SO I'M INCREDIBLY
GRATEFUL TO SEE FUNDING
DIRECTED IN THIS WAY TO SUPPORT
SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS,
TREATMENT AND INTERVENTION
PROGRAMS HERE IN IN ANN ARBOR.
I DO HAVE I THINK ONE MAYBE TWO
QUESTIONS JUST AROUND THE
INTENT OF WHERE THIS IS GOING.
I THINK THAT'S QUITE CLEAR IN
THE RESOLUTION BUT WANTING TO
MAKE SURE IN OUR OVERSIGHT
OF THIS THIS IS PERHAPS A
QUESTION FOR MR. DE HONY.
I KNOW THAT COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH PARTNERSHIP OF SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN IS FOR COUNTY PROGRAM
AND THIS IS INTENDED FOR ANN
ARBOR BASED SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER TREATMENT AND
INTERVENTION PROGRAMS.
I BELIEVE THE LANGUAGE THROUGH
SUPPORT OF LOCAL SUBSTANCE USE
SURVIVOR SERVICE PROVIDERS TO
RESPOND TO FEDERAL FUNDING CUTS
IS SUFFICIENTLY CLEAR TO ENSURE
THAT THIS MONEY WILL LARGELY BE
PASSED THROUGH TO OUR LOCAL
SERVICE PROVIDERS BUT WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE CITY IS
GOING TO ENSURE THAT THAT TAKES
PLACE WITH THESE DOLLARS.
YES, WHAT WE'RE DENHA WE WILL
BE ATTENTIVE AND ALSO MAKE IT
EXPLICIT IN ANY AGREEMENT THAT
WE ENTER INTO.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED DC SEVEN
RESOLUTION TO ALLOCATE FUNDS
FOR EXPANDING FOOD ACCESS AND
SUPPORTING LOCAL FOOD
DISTRIBUTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ZERO AND SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC SEVEN 00.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WOULD FIRSTLY LIKE TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBERS WATSON NOW
HARRISON AND BRAGGS FOR YOUR
SUPPORT IN THIS RESOLUTION.
SO OVER THE PAST SEVERAL WEEKS
MY COLLEAGUES AND I HAVE HAD
THE PRIVILEGE OF SPEAKING WITH
LEADERS FROM THE LARGEST FOOD
AID PROVIDER IN OUR COUNTY FOOD
GATHERERS, WHICH SERVES AS THE
UNDERLYING FOOD PROVIDER TO ALL
FOOD PANTRIES.
>> WE ALSO HAVE SPOKEN TO SOME
OF OUR SOME OF OUR
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ALSO
DISTRIBUTE THAT FOOD, INCLUDING
COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE VERY
REAL IMPACT OF FEDERAL FUNDING
REDUCTIONS AND HOW IT'S
IMPACTING PEOPLE ON THE GROUND
.
WE LEARN THAT FOOD GATHERERS
RECENTLY LOST ACCESS TO 15
PERCENT OF THE FOOD IT
PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED FROM THE US
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE DUE
TO A TO FEDERAL CUTS.
THIS IS A DIRECT HIT TO OUR
LOCAL SAFETY NET.
THE CUTS AFFECT A CRITICAL
SUPPLY OF HIGH QUALITY PROTEIN
PRODUCE AND DAIRY ITEMS AND
TRANSLATE TO AN ESTIMATED LOSS
OF ONE POINT TWO MILLION MEALS
FOR WASHTENAW COUNTY RESIDENTS
.
THIS IS IN THE MIDST
OF POTENTIAL DEEP CUTS TO
FEDERAL SNAP BENEFITS
WHICH IF
IT PASSES WOULD CREATE A
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN OUR
COUNTRY.
THE VALUE OF THIS LOST FOOD IS
APPROXIMATELY TWO POINT FIVE
MILLION A STAGGERING SHORTFALL
THAT FOOD GATHERERS IS NOW
TRYING TO FILL USING EMERGENCY
RESERVES.
THESE CUTS COME AT A TIME
OF RECORD BREAKING FOOD AND
NEED IN OUR COUNTY AND TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR LONE FOOD GATHERERS
DISTRIBUTED NINE POINT NINE
MILLION POUNDS OF FOOD REACHING
SIXTY THOUSAND INDIVIDUALS AND
EIGHT POINT FIVE PERCENT
INCREASE FROM THE PREVIOUS
YEAR.
>> ALSO ALARMINGLY, 20 PERCENT
OF THOSE SERVED BY OUR FOOD
PANTRIES VISIT 13 TIMES A YEAR
OR MORE.
IT'S A CLEAR SIGN OF PERSISTENT
CHRONIC FOOD INSECURITY.
OUR COUNTY ALSO HAPPENS TO BE
EXPERIENCING ONE OF THE FASTEST
RISING RATES OF HOMELESSNESS IN
OUR HISTORY WITH SPECIFIC
EFFECTS TO OLDER ADULTS.
THESE CHALLENGES WERE
CREATED OVERNIGHT AND THEY
WON'T BE SOLVED BY ONE ACTION
BUT THEY DO CALL US TO ACT
LOCALLY WHEN FEDERAL SUPPORT
FALLS SHORT.
>> THAT'S WHY I'M PROUD TO
SPONSOR TONIGHT'S RESOLUTION
ALONGSIDE MY COLLEAGUES
ALLOCATING THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND FROM THE GENERAL FUND
TO EXPAND FOOD, DISTRIBUTE AND
BOLSTER THE CAPACITY OF LOCAL
FOOD PANTRIES AND SUPPORT FOOD
GATHERERS, MOBILE AND OTHER
FOOD PROGRAMS.
I'M HOPING THE REST OF MY
COLLEAGUES WILL JOIN ME AND I
THANK YOU FOR MALIK.
I CLEARLY DON'T HAVE TO SPEAK
ON THE IMPORTANCE OF FOOD
GATHERERS AND THE SERVICES THEY
PROVIDE OR THE NEEDS THEY FACE
IN THESE TIMES.
MY COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER
GLAZYEV COVERED IT QUITE WELL
TOGETHER.
>> HIS REPUTATION PRECEDES AND
THE NEED IS GREAT.
>> HOWEVER, I BELIEVE I HAVE
WHAT IS PERHAPS A UNIQUE
PERSPECTIVE WHEN IT COMES TO
THIS RESOLUTION TONIGHT THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO HIGHLIGHT WHEN WE
THINK ABOUT FOOD DISTRIBUTION
PROGRAMS HELPING THOSE IN NEED,
WE DON'T USUALLY THINK ABOUT
WHERE THAT FOOD COMES FROM.
>> MANY OF THE FEDERAL USDA
FUNDS FOR FOOD PURCHASES THAT
WERE CANCELED THIS YEAR
PROMPTING THIS RESOLUTION
TONIGHT INCLUDED PROGRAMS SUCH
AS THE LOCAL FOOD PURCHASE
AGREEMENT AND THE EMERGENCY
FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
THESE PROGRAMS STIPULATIONS
THAT MUCH OF THE FOOD PURCHASED
FOR DISTRIBUTION USING THE
FUNDS HAD TO BE PURCHASED
LOCALLY.
MY DAY JOB ALLOWS ME TO SEE THE
TREMENDOUS BOOST THESE FUNDS
PROVIDED FOR OUR PRODUCERS AND
FARMERS ACROSS MICHIGAN IN
ADDITION TO STRENGTHENING OUR
LOCAL FOOD SECURITY SAFETY NET
THROUGH THE WONDERFUL WORK
OF GROUPS LIKE FOOD GATHERERS,
THESE FUNDS ALSO STRENGTHENED
OUR LOCAL FOOD PRODUCTION
SYSTEM THAT'S TO SAY OUR
NEIGHBORS FARMERS BOTH RURAL
AND URBAN A STRONG LOCAL FOOD
SYSTEM HELPS ALL OF US AND
MAKES ALL OF US HEALTHIER.
I BRING ALL THIS UP TONIGHT TO
HIGHLIGHT THAT FUNDS PROVIDED
TO A GROUP LIKE FOOD GETHERS
CAN PAY MANY POSITIVE DIVIDENDS
BOTH IMMEDIATELY AND INTO THE
FUTURE AND I'M PROUD TO BE
VOTING IN FAVOR OF THIS
RESOLUTION TONIGHT.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON I JUST
WANT TO OBVIOUSLY THANK MY
CO-SPONSORS AND ALSO THANK THE
DIRECTOR OF FOOD GETHERS EILENE
SPRING EVERY YEAR SHE HOSTS AND
FOOD SHELTER HAS HOSTED AN
EVENT CALLED THE STATE OF OUR
PLATE WHERE THEY INTENTIONALLY
INVITE IN POLICYMAKERS AND JUST
INTERESTED COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO
LEARN EXACTLY WHAT FOOD
GATHERERS DOES AND GENERALLY
HOW THINGS ARE GOING FOR THE
FOOD INSECURE.
AND I'VE GOTTEN A CHANCE TO
ATTEND THAT EVENT AND I MEAN
THAT'S WHERE I LEARNED THAT,
YOU KNOW, FOOD GATHERERS IS THE
UNDERLYING PROVIDER FOR EVERY
FOOD BANK IN THE COUNTY AND
THAT INCLUDES FOOD BANKS,
COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK SITES.
SOME OF THOSE ARE RIGHT AT OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION COMMUNITIES
AND ALSO FOR THE YOU PRIVATE
ORGANIZATIONS, NONPROFITS LIKE
ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH WHICH I
MYSELF AM A PART OF .
BUT I THINK THE FACT THAT THEY
ARE WILLING TO SHARE WITH THE
COMMUNITY EXACTLY WHERE THESE
RESOURCES GO, WHERE THE NEED IS
AND WE ALSO KNOW THAT THEY'RE
THE PEOPLE THAT USE OUR FOOD
BANKS ARE DISPROPORTIONATELY
COMMUNITY MEMBERS OF COLOR AND
WE KNOW THAT, YOU KNOW, NO
MATTER YOU KNOW HOW NO MATTER
HOW INCOME CHALLENGED
INDIVIDUALS MAY BE, THEY STILL
NEED TO EAT AND THEY STILL NEED
THIS NETWORK OF FOOD BANKS TO
TO HELP THEM.
SO I'M JUST GRATEFUL THAT FOOD
GATHERING WAS JUST HONEST WITH
US ABOUT THE NEED AND I'M
GRATEFUL THAT THE CITY CAN
PROVIDE COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
JUST WANT TO ONCE AGAIN THANK
THE SPONSORS FOR WORKING ON
THIS IMPORTANT ISSUE AND WOULD
ASK TO BE ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR
PLEASE.
AND IF IT IS NOT TOO LATE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR THE DC
SIX THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED
ITS APPROVED DC EIGHT
RESOLUTION TO ALLOCATE FUNDS
FOR SHELTER DIVERSION,
EVICTION, PREVENTION AND
PROGRAMING IN UNDER-RESOURCED
COMMUNITIES MOVI RAWAT'S AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC EIGHT
COUNCILMAN WATSON SO AS PROUD
TO WORK ON THIS RESOLUTION I
THINK THE MOST IMPORTANT CLAUSE
IS THE LAST WHEREAS CLAUSE
WHEREAS THE DEPTH OF NEED AMONG
PROVIDERS OF HOUSING,
HOMELESSNESS AND LOW INCOME
SERVICES DUE TO THREATS TO HUD
AND FEMA BUDGETS ALONGSIDE
OTHER FEDERAL GRANT
CANCELATIONS MEANS THAT
AVAILABLE CITY FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY FIVE FUNDS WILL NOT BE
ABLE TO FILL ALL GAPS ALL
ORGANIZATIONS THE FEDERAL
ADMINISTRATION IS CREATING A
DRASTIC CHANGE IN THE LANDSCAPE
FOR OUR SAFETY NET SERVICE
PROVIDERS.
FACED WITH THIS CHANGE AND
FURTHER UNCERTAINTY, MY
CO-SPONSORS AND I HAVE HAD A
TALL ORDER TO DECIDE HOW BEST
TO ALLOCATE THIS MONEY.
WE HAD CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
WASHINGTON HOUSING ALLIANCE
JENNIFER HALL AT THE HOUSING
COMMISSION AND SERVICE
PROVIDERS.
WE DECIDED TO FOCUS ON PROGRAMS
THAT WERE IMMEDIATELY AFFECTED
BY FEDERAL FEDERAL AID.
THE CANCELATION OF FEDERAL
GRANTS PROGRAMS THAT WOULDN'T
HAPPEN WITHOUT CITY FUNDING AND
PROGRAMS FOR THOSE FEELING THE
IMPACTS OF INFLATION, TARIFFS
AND ALL SORTS OF ECONOMIC
SHOCKS.
>> THE FIRST PROGRAM WE HEARD
ABOUT THAT FACES AN IMMEDIATE
FUNDING GAP IS THE SHELTER
DIVERSION PROGRAM, WHICH IS A
COLLABORATIVE COLLABORATIVE
EFFORT BETWEEN THE SHELTER
ASSOCIATION OF WASHINGTON
COUNTY AND S.O.S COMMUNITY
SERVICES.
THE GOAL OF THIS PROGRAM IS TO
PREVENT HOMELESSNESS BY FUNDING
CASE MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND OR
PAYING ANY NECESSARY BILLS THAT
HELP PEOPLE AVOID A SHELTER.
STAY FOR EXAMPLE, A SOCIAL
WORKER CAN HELP MEDIATE BETWEEN
AN INDIVIDUAL AND THEIR FAMILY
WHERE THEY CAN GUARANTEE THAT
THE PERSON WILL HAVE ACCESS TO
TREATMENT OR PROGRAMING DURING
THE DAY IF THEY CAN JUST GET A
BED AT NIGHT.
THIS PROGRAM HAS BEEN VERY
SUCCESSFUL BUT IT FACES AROUND
ONE HUNDRED FORTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS GAP COMPARED TO LAST
YEAR FOR MR. THE STATE HOUSING
AGENCY THAT RECEIVES PASS
THROUGH HUD DOLLARS.
I'VE SPOKEN TO DAN KELLY AT THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION AND HE
BELIEVES THIS MONEY WILL BE
ABLE TO HELP AT LEAST ONE
HUNDRED HOUSEHOLDS THE CURRENT
FEDERAL ADMINISTRATION HAS CUT
FUNDING FOR AMERICORPS WHICH
PROVIDED VOLUNTEER STAFF TO A
NUMBER OF ANN ARBOR NONPROFITS.
COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK HAS
BEEN HIT HARD BY THIS
CANCELATION, LOSING
APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS WORTH
OF STAFF LABOR AND A FORTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS CASH GRANT.
>> CAIRNS DIRECTOR DEREK MILLER
HAS LET COUNCIL KNOW THAT THIS
GRANT OF ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
WILL ENABLE CAN TO CONTINUE ITS
SUMMER PROGRAMING FOR YOUTH AT
ITS COMMUNITY CENTERS LIKE THE
ONES AT GREEN BAXTER AND IN THE
BRYANT NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> WE KNOW THAT THE PRICE
OF GROCERIES AND DATA ITEMS CAN
HAVE A HUGE EFFECT ON
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES ONCE
PEOPLE ARE EVICTED.
WE KNOW THAT THE AMOUNT
OF RESOURCES AND INTERVENTIONS
NECESSARY TO RETURN THEM TO
HOUSING IS FAR GREATER THAN
SIMPLY KEEPING PEOPLE HOUSED IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
ONE SIGN THAT PREVENTING
EVICTION PREVENTS HOMELESSNESS
IS THAT THE BIGGEST SPIKE IN
FAMILY HOMELESSNESS WAS WHEN
THE COVID AREA ERA EVICTION
MORATORIUM WAS LIFTED.
WE KNOW FROM THE CITY'S
EVICTION PREVENTION DATA THAT
THE MOST LIKELY CAUSE FOR
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES TO
NEED FUNDS IS AN UNEXPECTED
EXPENSE WHEN CITY EVICTION
PREVENTION FUNDS ARE ABLE TO
HELP HOUSEHOLDS WEATHER A
CHANGE IN EXPENSES PAYING OFF A
UTILITY BILL OR A MONTH PASS TO
RENT, THEY'RE ABLE TO MAINTAIN
THEIR HOUSING ONCE THEIR
INCOMES ARE LIFE EVENT STABLE.
ONCE THEIR INCOMES ARE LIFE
EVENTS STABILIZE BASED ON PAST
TRENDS WE EXPECT THESE FUNDS,
THESE EVICTION PREVENTION FUNDS
TO HELP ABOUT NINETY FIVE
HOUSEHOLDS AVOID EVICTION.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MCCONNELL THANK YOU SO
MUCH COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
THAT WAS REALLY ELOQUENTLY PUT.
>> I JUST WANTED TO REALLY
QUICKLY THANK THE PEOPLE AND
ORGANIZATIONS WHO HELPED INFORM
SIX, SEVEN AND EIGHT THERE WAS
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF INPUT
WHEN I WAS IN APRA TOLD PEOPLE
TO NEVER LIST NAMES BUT I'M
GOING TO DO REALLY QUICKLY AND
I KNOW I'LL LEAVE SOMEBODY OUT.
BUT DON FARMS AVALON SO AS THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION, THE
HOUSING COMMISSION DELANO'S
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH
PARTNERSHIPS THIS WAS A
SIGNIFICANT GROUP EFFORT WITH
COMMUNITY LEADERS, WITH PEOPLE
WHO ARE ACTUALLY WORKING TO
PROVIDE THESE CRITICAL SERVICES
WITHIN ANN ARBOR AND THE FACT
THAT THEY TOOK THE AMOUNT
OF TIME THAT THEY DID TO SPEAK
WITH US ABOUT THEIR NEEDS TO BE
QUITE CANDID IN WHERE THEIR
CHALLENGES ARE AND TO LET US GO
BACK AND FORTH AND FIGURE OUT
THE BEST WAY TO HELP MEET THOSE
NEEDS WAS INCREDIBLY HELPFUL
AND I'M DEEPLY APPRECIATIVE
OF THEIR TIME AND I KNOW THAT
MY CO-SPONSORS ARE AS WELL.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK
YOU BECAUSE GOOD WORK LIKE THIS
AT THE COUNCIL TABLE HAPPENS
WHEN NOT ONLY COUNCIL MEMBERS
GO OUT IN THE COMMUNITY AND ASK
HOW CAN WE HELP YOU BUT WE HAVE
WILLING PARTNERS WITHIN THE
COMMUNITY WHO ARE TRANSPARENT
ABOUT WHERE THEIR NEEDS ARE AND
WHERE WE CAN HAVE THE BIGGEST
IMPACT.
AND THOSE CONVERSATIONS WERE
REALLY, REALLY THOUGHTFUL SO I
APPRECIATE THEIR TIME.
COUNCIL MEMBER BREEKS YEAH.
THANK YOU.
I'D LIKE TO ECHO THOSE THINGS
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER KERNELL
JUST GAVE TO OUR SERVICE
PROVIDERS AND ALSO TO SOME
COUNCIL MEMBERS COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON AND GOT THE EDWYN AND
CORNELL WHO HAVE
REALLY DUG IN
DEEPLY TO THESE ISSUES.
>> THE FEDERAL CUTS THAT WE'RE
SEEING ARE UNCONSCIONABLE IN
OUR MORAL AND IT'S IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE FOR US TO PLUG THE
HOLE HERE LOCALLY WITH THE
LIMITED FUNDING THAT WE HAVE
AND THERE ARE TOO MANY NEEDS
AND TOO MANY IMPORTANT
PRIORITIES THAT WE REALLY WANT
TO BE ABLE TO FUND AT A HIGHER
LEVEL THE FUNDING NEEDS FOR FOR
FOOD GATHERERS FOR EXAMPLE, AS
YOU KNOW, IT'S 2.5 MILLION WE
WERE WE'RE NOT ABLE TO MEET
THAT NEED AND I'M GLAD THROUGH
THIS SERIES OF RESOLUTIONS THAT
WE ARE DOING WHAT WE CAN TO BE
ABLE TO ADVANCE AND FILL SOME
OF THE NEED IN OUR OWN
COMMUNITY.
>> I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER TO A FEW THE
FACTS AROUND SOME OF THE CUTS
TO THAT HUD THAT THE WHITE
HOUSE IS CALLING FOR.
YOU KNOW, THEY'VE ESSENTIALLY
CALLED FEDERAL RENTAL
ASSISTANCE DYSFUNCTIONAL.
THEY'VE PROPOSED BASICALLY
ENDING SECTION EIGHT ANOTHER
HOUSING VOUCHER PROGRAMS.
>> THEY'VE CALLED FOR CUTTING
RENTAL AID BY ABOUT 40 PERCENT
,TALKING ABOUT IMPOSING A TWO
YEAR GAP CAP ON RENTAL
ASSISTANCE FOR ABLE BODIED
ADULTS.
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE WE'RE SEEING
THIS COMING AT A TIME WHEN
NEARLY HALF OF ALL RENTERS ARE
CONSIDERED COST BURDENED AND
HOMELESSNESS IS AT A RECORD
HIGH.
WE'VE SEEN OUR OWN CUSTOMER
ADVOCACY, EDWIN SAID EARLIER.
WE'RE SEEING AN INCREASE HERE
LOCALLY ARE THE FUNDING THAT WE
CAN PUT TOWARDS EVICTION
PREVENTION HERE IN OUR
COMMUNITY IS ESSENTIAL TO BE
ABLE TO TRY TO AT A TIME WHEN
WE KNOW WE'RE GOING TO SEE AN
INCREASE IN HOMELESSNESS TO TRY
TO KEEP PEOPLE IN HOUSING.
WE CANNOT BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FAST ENOUGH.
>> THE BEST THING THAT WE CAN
DO IS TRY TO KEEP PEOPLE
FOCUSING FOLKS IN THEIR HOMES
AND GIVE THEM DIGNITY AT A TIME
WHEN THEY'RE STRUGGLING AND
WHEN SO MANY SAFETY NETS ARE
BEING PULLED AWAY FROM THE MOST
VULNERABLE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> SO I'M HAPPY TO VOTE FOR
TONIGHT BUT I'M HAPPY THAT I
HAVE TO THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
DISH WHICH I JUST LIKE TO BE
ADDED TO DC EIGHT PLEASE AND A
VERY GRATEFUL TO THE SPONSORS
FOR ALL THE WORK THEY DID WITH
ALL THESE EXCELLENT
ORGANIZATIONS IN ALL THREE
OF THESE RESOLUTIONS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I TOO
WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR WITH FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS TO PROVE DC NINE
RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR ADMINISTRATOR TO
EXPLORE A REPLACEMENT RECORDS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
MUBI COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
NINE COUNCILOR HARRISON.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
CURRENTLY THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
WE ARE USING A REGIONAL RECORDS
SYSTEM BY THE NAME OF CLEVIS
THAT SIMPLY WAS NOT BUILT WITH
OUR CITY'S VALUES.
OUR VISION IN MIND IT LIMITS
HOW WE COLLECT AND ANALYZE
DATA, HOW WE EVALUATE PROGRAMS
AND HOW WE UPHOLD TRANSPARENCY.
>> THAT'S A SERIOUS ISSUE WHEN
WE'RE TRYING TO IMPLEMENT LOCAL
REFORMS ON OUR CRISIS RESPONSE
AND COMMUNITY STANDARDS SAFETY
.
>> IF WE CAN'T CUSTOMIZE THE
DATA WE COLLECT AND WE CAN'T
MEASURE WHAT MATTERS OR IMPROVE
WHAT NEEDS CHANGING.
I'M SORRY WHAT NEEDS CHANGING
AND IF WE DON'T CONTROL THE
DATA FULLY WE CAN'T PROTECT IT
OR BUILD PUBLIC TRUST.
>> THAT'S WHY THIS RESOLUTION
CALLS FOR EXPLORING REPLACEMENT
RECORDS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ONE
THAT ALIGNS WITH AN OBVIOUS
GOALS AROUND PRIVACY,
INNOVATION AND COMMUNITY
CENTERED SAFETY.
IT'S AN INVESTMENT AND PUBLIC
TRUST ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE
LONG TERM INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDED
TO SUPPORT OUR EVOLVING
APPROACH TO PUBLIC SAFETY.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL OVER WATSON.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR KEEPING THE FOCUS
ON US BECAUSE I MEAN I THINK
THIS GOES BACK TO, YOU KNOW,
2023 AND SOME OF THE DATA WE
GOT AROUND SECONDARY STOPS AND
WE NOTICE THERE'S LIKE A BIG
PROBLEM WITH HOW THOSE ARE
RECORDED WITHIN CLEMINS.
AND I MEAN IT'S A TALL TASK TOO
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, MOST
OF SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN IF NOT
ALL OF SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN USES
THIS.
AND SO WE REALLY DO NEED TO
KIND OF KEEP THE FOCUS ON
GETTING A NEW ALTERNATIVE.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, THE CLICHE
IS, YOU KNOW, IF WHAT YOU'RE
NOT MEASURING YOU KNOW YOU'RE
NOT FIXING YOU CAN'T MEASURE
THE PROBLEM.
YOU CAN'T FIX THE PROBLEM AND
THIS IS A CRUCIAL STEP IN
HELPING OUR DEPARTMENT HAVE
BETTER INFORMATION IN THE LONG
RUN.
I THINK BETTER OUTCOMES FOR THE
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED.
DEBE ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
A ONE ONE FIVE FIVE ARLINGTON
BOULEVARD ANNEXATION POINT NINE
ACRES ONE ONE FIVE FIVE
ARLINGTON BOULEVARD MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COUNCIL OVER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASED TO BE ONE ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED D TO
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT A SANITARY
SEWER EASEMENT AT ONE FOUR ZERO
ZERO S MAPLE ROAD FROM MIDTOWN
ANN ARBOR LLC MOVE BY COUNCILOR
MCCONNELL SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION D
OF DOWN TO TWO IN FAVOR POSE
ITS APPROVED D THREE RESOLUTION
TO ACCEPT A WATER MAIN EASEMENT
AT I'M SORRY THANK YOU THE THE
MATTER IS APPROVED WITH TEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC THREE
RESOLUTIONS TO ACCEPT A WATER
MAIN EASEMENT AT ONE FOUR ZERO
ZERO SOUTH MAPLE ROAD FROM
MIDTOWN ANN ARBOR LLC MOVED BY
COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN REDISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC DESTRY OR FAVOR OR
POSED IT IS APPROVED THE ELEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT THUS
SATISFIED THE VOTE REQUIREMENT
RUTHE ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFIED VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC FOR RESOLUTION
TO PROVE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR
THE ANN ARBOR FIRE DEPARTMENT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
FOR
THAT QUESTION COUNCILMAN
RACKMAN I JUST WANTED TO
QUICKLY AND I THINK THIS
APPLIES TO SEVERAL OF THE FEE
ADJUSTMENTS ON OUR LIST.
WE DON'T ALWAYS RAISE FEES
SOMETIMES WE LOWER THE FEES AND
I GUESS I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK
TO MY APPRECIATION STAFF ARE
CONSTANTLY EVALUATING THAT.
WE'RE JUST BASICALLY DOING COST
RECOVERY .
SO THAT'S THE CASE HERE AND
IT'S A CASE A COUPLE MORE FROM
NOW.
>> SO THANKS.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
FAVORITE WELL POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED FIVE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE ANN ARBOR
POLICE DEPARTMENT MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
QUENELLE DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THESE FIVE IN FAVOR POSED
IT'S APPROVED THE SIX
RESOLUTION APPROVE FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE PUBLIC
SERVICE AREA ENGINEERING'S
SYSTEMS PLANNING PUBLIC WORKS
WATER TREATMENT UNITS AND THE
FLEET AND FACILITIES AIRPORT
UNIT OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE SIX FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED SEVEN RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY SIX FEE ADJUSTMENTS FOR
THE COMMUNITY SERVICES AREA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK
SCANBUY COUNCIL NERDISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DENHA
SEVEN ON FAVOR POSTHASTE SEVEN
IS APPROVED
DC EIGHT RESOLUTION
TO ADOPT THE ANN ARBOR CITY
BUDGET AND RELATED PROPERTY TAX
MILEAGE RATES FOR FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX MUBI COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DECEIT COUNCILOR HARRISON
THANK YOU MAYOR.
ALL RIGHT THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
QUESTION HOW MANY AND OPERATES
ARE BEING SERVED BY THE RISING
HOPE FOR HOUSING PROGRAM.
>> SO LET'S TALK ABOUT WHY THAT
KIND OF THINKING CAUSES HARM.
>> LET'S BE HONEST FOR DECADES
HARM WAS INFLICTED THROUGH
DISCRIMINATORY ENFORCEMENT.
>> KATZENJAMMER, CAN I JUST ASK
YOU QUICKLY IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT AN AMENDMENT TO MOVE AN
AMENDMENT I'M SORRY WAIT WHAT
ARE YOU DOING?
>> YOU WANT TO MOVE AMENDMENT
ONE?
>> YES, I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
AMENDMENT ONE.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND IF I
WERE A DISH COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON IF YOU STILL HAVE THE
FLOOR.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IT'S MOVING SECONDED.
>> IT'S ALL YOU LET'S BE HONEST
FOR DECADES HARM WAS INFLICTED
THROUGH A DISCRIMINATORY
ENFORCEMENT RIGHT HERE IN ANN
ARBOR BLACK, BROWN AND WHITE
LOW-INCOME RESIDENTS WERE
SEARCHED FOR THE SCENT
OF MARIJUANA PULLED OVER FOR
PRETEXT STOPS TARGETED FOR
POVERTY OR DISABILITY FOR BEING
IN THE WRONG PART OF PART
OF TOWN WHILE NOT APPEARING AS
AN UPPER MIDDLE CLASS WHITE
PERSON.
MEANWHILE, OTHERS ARE LIGHTING
UP IN PUBLIC IN PUBLIC AT HARSH
BASH IN BROAD DAYLIGHT AND
WALKING AWAY UNTOUCHED.
>> THEY WEREN'T ARRESTED.
THEY WEREN'T BOOKED.
THEY WEREN'T INCARCERATED.
>> THEY WEREN'T STIGMATIZED.
THAT SAME DEMOGRAPHIC NOW OWNS
DISPENSARIES IN THE CITY AND
OUT OF ALL THE DISPENSARIES IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
ONLY ONE
IS BLACK OWNED.
WE CANNOT PRETEND THAT THE
DAMAGE HAPPENED TO SOMEWHERE
ELSE.
>> IT HAPPENS HERE.
THAT'S WHY THE TWENTY TWENTY
ONE RESOLUTION CO-SPONSORED
POSSIBLY BY INDIVIDUALS SITTING
AT THIS VERY TABLE STATED
CLEARLY THE MARIJUANA EXCISE
TAX SHOULD BE USED TO REPAIR
HARM TO FUND JUSTICE.
>> RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
SERVES PEOPLE DIRECTLY IMPACTED
BY THAT HARM PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOCKED OUT OF HOUSING, TRAPPED
BY CRIMINAL RECORDS, UNABLE TO
ACCESS FEDERAL RESOURCES AND
MADE TO FEEL LIKE THIS CITY NO
LONGER HAD A PLACE FOR THEM AS
RESIDENTS, AS WORKERS, AS
VISITORS.
>> THIS IS TRUE DEFLECTION ITS
STEPS IN BEFORE THE EVICTION
NOTICE, BEFORE THE COURT DATA,
BEFORE SOMEONE IS RE
TRAUMATIZED BY A SYSTEM THAT
ALREADY FAILED THEM.
IT DOESN'T WAIT FOR THE
IRREVERSIBLE CRISIS.
IT MOVES EARLY BECAUSE JUSTICE
DELAYED IS TOO OFTEN JUSTICE
DENIED ITS STABILIZATION, ITS
SUPPORT FOR PEOPLE WHO WERE
TOLD EXPLICITLY AND IMPLICITLY
THAT THEY DIDN'T BELONG IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> AND YET HERE WE ARE IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ENTERTAINING
THE IDEA THAT MAYBE SOME MONEY
SOME OF THAT MONEY SHOULD GO
ELSEWHERE.
>> SO LET'S BE HONEST ABOUT
THIS.
WE INVOKE VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS, BLACK PEOPLE, LOW
INCOME RESIDENTS, WORKERS AS
JUSTIFIED FOR ZONING REFORM,
DENSITY CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENT
INCENTIVES.
>> BUT THEN THE POLICIES PASSED
END UP SERVING THE MIDDLE AND
UPPER MIDDLE CLASS AND THE
PEOPLE WE TALKED ABOUT THERE
LEFT BEHIND IF WE IF WE CAN USE
THE IDEA OF HARM TO JUSTIFY
POLICY, WE BETTER BE WILLING TO
USE REAL RESOURCES TO REPAIR IT
BECAUSE IF WE ONLY ABOUT EQUITY
WHEN WE NEED A TALKING POINT
FOR DEVELOPMENT OR TO LOOK
PROGRESSIVE THEN WE ARE NOT
SERIOUS AND PEOPLE WILL NOTICE
IF WE CAN'T SPEND MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX DOLLARS ON THE
PEOPLE MOST HARMED BY MARIJUANA
ENFORCEMENT THEN LET'S STOP
PRETENDING THIS WAS EVER ABOUT
EQUITY.
THE VOTE ON THIS NO.
YES, I'M ALL RIGHT.
I'LL SAY THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF AMENDMENT
ONE
BUT YEAH I HAVE.
>> OK SO BASICALLY YOU HAD A
COUPLE MORE SENATORS.
THIS VOTE WILL TELL THE PUBLIC
EXACTLY WHO WE ARE NOT WHO WE
SAY WE ARE, WHO WE ARE WHEN
MONEY IS ON THE TABLE.
>> BILLY I IS THE SOLE SPONSOR
THE ONLY SPONSOR OF OF THIS
BUDGET AMENDMENT ASKING THAT WE
I COULD SAY FULLY FUND RAISING
HOPE FOR HOUSING FUNDED AS MUCH
AS WE POSSIBLY CAN OR BE HONEST
ENOUGH TO SAY THAT EQUITY WAS
NEVER THE GOAL.
I REALLY I ALSO WANT TO THANK
EVERYBODY IN THIS ROOM THAT
CAME AND WE'RE VULNERABLE TO
COME IN FRONT OF US AND TELL
OUR STORIES, TELL YOUR STORIES
.
IT'S IT'S HARD TO DO THAT JUST
FOR FEAR OF NOT BEING
UNDERSTOOD OR FEAR OF JUDGMENT.
I DO ALSO WANT TO THANK
ACTUALLY ALL THE ORGANIZATIONS
I THINK COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
NAMED I SPOKE WITH ALL OF THEM
AS WELL.
>> THERE IS ROUGHLY I DON'T
KNOW HOW MANY PARTNERS THAT
THEIR SIX PARTNERS THAT
DEVELOPED THE INFRASTRUCTURE
FOR RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING AN
ADDITIONAL EIGHT TO 12 THAT
COLLABORATE WHEN RISING HOPE
FOR HOUSING.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR, YOU KNOW,
REACHING OUT TO US VIA EMAIL.
THANK YOU FOR THE TIME YOU
SPENT REACHING OUT TO ME AND
MEETING WITH ME AT TWELVE
O'CLOCK DURING MY LUNCH BREAK
OR AFTER OR AFTER HOURS AND
AGAIN THANK YOU ALL FOR ALL
THAT YOU DO AND FOR FOR BEING
VULNERABLE TO TELL STORIES FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MIRACLEMAN THANK YOU.
>> I APPRECIATE EVERYTHING BUT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON JUST
SAID AND CERTAINLY AM VERY
PROUD AND GLAD THAT THIS BODY
HAS FUNDED RISING HOPE BEFORE
AND I SUPPORT CONTINUING TO
FUND THEM I GUESS BUT BUT AS I
UNDERSTAND THE PREVIOUS
RESOLUTION SET OUT TO SPEND
THESE FUNDS I THINK IT
COVERED A NUMBER OF THINGS
EMERGENCIES SERVICES INCLUDING
MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDER PROGRAMS FOR SUBSTANCE
ABUSE INTERVENTION TREATMENT
AND RECOVERY SUPPORT SERVICES,
EDUCATION ENRICHMENT PROGRAMS
FOR AT RISK YOUTH AND
INNOVATION INNOVATIVE GRANTS
PROMOTING CRIMINAL JUSTICE
REFORM COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
WAS SPEAKING TO AND AS I RECALL
IN THE PRIOR TWO YEARS THAT
I'VE BEEN INVOLVED IN THIS
BUDGET CYCLE WE HAVE DEDICATED
SOME OF THE MARIJUANA EXCISE
TAX TO THINGS LIKE ADDICTION
PREVENTION AND AS I RECALL SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK THAT
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR SET
MONEY ASIDE FOR.
SO I GUESS I WOULD JUST SAY
THAT MY UNDERSTANDING OF THAT
PREVIOUSLY PASSED RESOLUTION
WAS THAT IT WAS A LITTLE BIT
MORE BROAD TO TALK ABOUT
SUPPORTING THE THINGS I JUST
LISTED SO I DON'T NEED TO
REPEAT THEM AND MAYBE
MISUNDERSTOOD BUT THAT'S HOW
I'VE UNDERSTOOD IT
.
>> WATSON I'D LIKE TO I'D LIKE
TO PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT TO THIS
AMENDMENT ONE I'M GOING TO PASS
IT TO THE CLERK
AND HOPEFULLY
SHE CAN FORWARD IT TO THE BODY.
>> SO IN BETWEEN THE AMENDMENTS
BEING SUBMITTED AND AND TONIGHT
WE HEARD THAT THE HOME OF NEW
VISION WELL ACTUALLY I GOT TO
WAIT TILL WE GET TO SEE THE
FORT.
>> IT SO I WANTED YOU PERHAPS
READ THE AMENDMENT.
>> WE'LL GET A SECOND AND THEN
YOU CAN SPEAK TO IT AS IT'S
BEING DISTRIBUTED.
SO WHAT I'M GOING TO DO SORRY
JUST I'M GOING TO MOVE TO AMEND
THE AMOUNT IN THE RESOLVE
CLAUSE FROM 500 THOUSAND TO
FIVE OR SIX ARE FROM SIX
HUNDRED SIXTEEN THOUSAND TO
FIVE AND SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND IS
THERE A SECOND TAKEN BY
COUNCILOR DISH COUNCILOR WATSON
YOU STILL HAVE THE FLOOR SO IN
BETWEEN THE SUBMISSION OF THE
BUDGET AMENDMENTS AND THIS
MEETING WE HEARD THAT EIGHTY
FIVE THOUSAND OF THE OF THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX MONEY THAT
WAS BEING ALLOCATED IN THE
ADMINISTRATORS BUDGET WOULD NO
LONGER BE ABLE TO GO TO THE
HOME OF A NEW VISION BECAUSE
THEY ANTICIPATE WITH CUTS TO
MEDICAID FUNDING BASICALLY THAT
THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO USE THE
MONEY AND THE ORGANIZATION IS
IN PERIL HONESTLY.
>> SO THAT MEANS THERE IS NOW A
TOTAL OF 701 THOUSAND IN
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX FUNDS UP
FROM SIX HUNDRED AND SIXTEEN.
>> SO MY AMENDMENT PROPOSES TO
SPLIT THIS AMOUNT ON A
PROPORTIONAL BASIS SO THE
PROPORTION WOULD BE FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND TO SIX HUNDRED
SIXTEEN AND THEN EVICTION
PREVENTION OF ONE HUNDRED
SIXTEEN THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
SIXTEEN SPLITTING THAT
PROPORTIONALLY IT'S WEIRD
NUMBERS BUT IF YOU ROUND OUT
THE NUMBERS IT'S FIVE HUNDRED
SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND TO EVICTION
PREVENTION AND THAT WOULD FREE
UP THEN A HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SIX THOUSAND TO GO TO FIVE SIX
FIVE THOUSAND TO RISING HOPE IN
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY SIX
THOUSAND TO GO TO THE EVICTION
PREVENTION PROGRAM.
THIS ISN'T A STATEMENT ABOUT
RISING HOPE IT'S A STATEMENT
ABOUT THE CITY BEING ABLE TO
CONTINUE FUNDING EVICTION
PREVENTION AT THE LEVEL AT AN
AVERAGE LEVEL THAT THEY WERE
ABLE TO DO THE PAST FEW YEARS
IN MY IN FISCAL TWENTY THREE
SUPPORTED EVICTION PREVENTION
AT THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND IN
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY FOUR WE
SUPPORTED THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND IN FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
FIVE WE SUPPORTED IT AT TWENTY
FIFTY THOUSAND AS WELL.
WHEN YOU SUB WHEN YOU SUM THIS
MONEY WITH THE TRUMP FUND IT
WOULD BE A TOTAL FUNDING FOR
EVICTION PREVENTION AT TWO
NINETY TWO THOUSAND FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT
COUNCILOR HARRISON, THANK YOU.
>> I THINK I JUST HAVE A LITTLE
BIT MORE TO SAY SO OK, JUST A
FURTHER THE DISCUSSION I WAS
HAVING A LITTLE BIT EARLIER NOT
EVERYONE WAS CRIMINALIZED FOR
MARIJUANA.
NOT EVERYONE WAS PULLED OVER
BOOKED OR BLOCK FROM HOUSING.
>> NOT EVERYONE WAS EXCLUDED
FROM FEDERAL AID BECAUSE OF A
RECORD THAT STARTED WITH A
PRETEXT STOP SOME RIGHT HERE IN
THE CITY.
>> SO WHEN WE SAY WE WANT TO
HELP EVERYONE BUT HE RAISED THE
SPECIFIC PEOPLE I PERSONALLY
THINK WE SHOULD BE MAD FOR TO
PREPARE HARM WE'RE NOT BEING
EQUITABLE ONLY WITH THEIR
RISING RECOGNIZES THAT
CRIMINALIZATION PUNISH POVERTY,
MENTAL ILLNESS, SURVIVAL AND
YES RACE.
>> BUT WHAT WE'RE CALLING
EVERYONE NOW IS OFTEN CODE FOR
THOSE WHO WERE NEVER HARMED IN
THE FIRST PLACE
.
THIS IS NOT ABOUT DENYING HELP
TO OTHERS.
>> IT'S THE POINT THAT OTHER
FUNDING THAT THERE IS OTHER
FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES AND
GRANTS.
THIS IS ABOUT FINALLY KEEPING A
PROMISE TO THE PEOPLE THIS CITY
HELPED PUSH TO THE MARGINS BOTH
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF ANN ARBOR
AND HONESTLY HAS NEVER FULLY
WELCOME TO BACK AND TO SAY
WE'RE FINE KEEPING FIVE HUNDRED
THOUSAND FOR RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING JUST NOT MORE THAN THAT
.
THIS IS THIS IS THAT SOMEBODY
SAID THAT TO OK SO I'M
REFERENCING THAT THAT'S LIKE
SAYING WE'RE GOING TO SUPPORT
SURVIVAL BUT NOT JUSTICE.
>> THIS ISN'T GENEROSITY.
IT'S AN OBLIGATION.
THIS IS ABOUT WHETHER THE
PEOPLE MOST HARMED ALWAYS HAVE
TO FIGHT FOR SCRAPS EVEN FOR
FUNDS THAT WERE MEANT FOR THEM.
IF WE CAN'T SPEND MARIJUANA TAX
DOLLARS ON THE PEOPLE HARMED BY
MARIJUANA ENFORCEMENT, THEN
LET'S STOP PRETENDING THIS WAS
EVER ABOUT EQUITY.
UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE WITHOUT
TARGETED REPAIR IS PROGRESS.
IT'S STATUS QUO PRESERVATION
WITH A BETTER TAGLINE AND IF
EQUITY ONLY MATTERS UNTIL
SOMEONE ELSE WANTS THE MONEY
THAT NEVER MATTERED AT ALL.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION CANCER
BREAKS.
THANK YOU AND I APPRECIATE THE
PASSION BY WHICH YOU SPEAK.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND
FULLY SUPPORT THE RISING HOPE
FOR HOUSING PROGRAM.
I THINK WE'VE HEARD OVER AND
OVER AGAIN THE STORIES HAVE
BEEN SHARED AND REALLY IT'S THE
POWERFUL STORIES AND I
APPRECIATE PEOPLE BEING WILLING
TO COME AND SPEAK AND SPEAK TO
BE VULNERABLE AND I'M GLAD TO
SEE THAT WE CAN THAT WE'VE BEEN
SUPPORTING THIS PROGRAM AND AND
ALSO ABLE TO INCREASE THE
FUNDING AS IT TURNS OUT THIS
YEAR.
>> BUT IF THIS AMENDMENT PASSES
BUT I I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER WHO ARE EVICTION
PREVENTION FUNDING SERVES JUST
READING FROM THE REPORT THAT WE
PULLED OUT FROM THE FIRST YEAR
OF DOING EVICTION PREVENTION
AND IN 2023 THESE 70 PERCENT
OF THE RECIPIENTS OF OUR
EVICTION PREVENTION WERE WERE
ACTUALLY OVER 70 PERCENT WERE
WERE NONWHITE, 75 PERCENT WERE
FEMALE, 70 PERCENT WERE
HOUSEHOLDS WITH CHILDREN.
>> THIS IS IMPORTANT WORK THAT
WE'RE DOING IN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> IT HAS SERVED REAL FAMILIES
IN OUR INNER CITY AND WE KNOW
THAT THE NEED IS INCREASING.
I WISH THAT WE HAD MORE FUNDING
TO BE ABLE TO DO ALL THE WORK
THAT WE WANT TO DO.
I WISH WE COULD PUT MORE
FUNDING TOWARDS ALL OF THE
IMPORTANT PROJECTS AND AND
PROGRAMS.
SOMETIMES IT'S DIFFICULT TO
FIGURE OUT, YOU KNOW, WHERE WE
HOW WE SPLIT THESE FUNDS.
I THINK WE'RE ALL COMMITTED TO
THIS WORK AND AGAIN THIS IS
ANOTHER ONE THAT I I WISH WE
DIDN'T HAVE TO PUT ANY FUNDING
TOWARDS BECAUSE I WISH IT WAS
THESE WERE PROBLEMS THAT DID
NOT EXIST FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCILMAN RICARDO, THANK
YOU TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR ALL
OF THE REALLY THOUGHTFUL
COMMENTS HERE TONIGHT.
I THINK ONE THING I'M REALLY
STRUGGLING WITH IS AS A BODY WE
FOUND OUT AT 4:00 P.M. THAT WE
HAD ADDITIONAL MONEY AVAILABLE
DUE TO THE UNFORTUNATE INCIDENT
WITH ONE OF OUR SERVICE
PROVIDERS SHUTTERING AND THAT
MONEY HASN'T IN MY MIND THAT
EIGHTY FIVE THOUSAND HASN'T
BEEN CAREFULLY CONSIDERED.
>> AND I DO THINK THAT WE HAVE
AND WHEN WE LOOK AT THOSE WHO
WERE IMPACTED BY FUNDING CUTS
ARE IMPACTED BY JUST LACK
AND WHEN WE LOOK AT THOSE WHO
OF RESOURCES, IT FEELS LIKE IN
ARE IMPACTED BY JUST LACK
OUR INITIAL DISBURSEMENT
OF RESOURCES, IT FEELS LIKE IN
OF THIS MONEY WE REALLY
OUR INITIAL DISBURSEMENT
CAREFULLY CONSIDERED THESE
OF THIS MONEY WE REALLY
SERVICES.
CAREFULLY CONSIDERED THESE
>> IT WAS SOMETHING THAT CAME
SERVICES.
REPEATEDLY TALKING TO OUR
>> IT WAS SOMETHING THAT CAME
HOUSING COMMISSION AS A
REPEATEDLY TALKING TO OUR
CRITICAL AREA WHERE THERE
HOUSING COMMISSION AS A
WASN'T A LOT OF ATTENTION,
CRITICAL AREA WHERE THERE
THERE WASN'T A LOT OF FUNDING
WASN'T A LOT OF ATTENTION,
AND IT COULD MAKE A TREMENDOUS
THERE WASN'T A LOT OF FUNDING
IMPACT AND JUST AS AN EXAMPLE,
AND IT COULD MAKE A TREMENDOUS
WE KNOW THAT THE CHECK AND
IMPACT AND JUST AS AN EXAMPLE,
CONNECT PROGRAM THROUGH THE
WE KNOW THAT THE CHECK AND
ENTIRE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WHICH
CONNECT PROGRAM THROUGH THE
TAKE SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
ENTIRE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WHICH
FUND FOR A YEAR WILL CONTINUE
TAKE SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
IF IT DOES NOT RECEIVE FUNDING
FUND FOR A YEAR WILL CONTINUE
AGAIN, THIS IS AN EVIDENCE
IF IT DOES NOT RECEIVE FUNDING
BASED MENTORSHIP PROGRAM FOR
AGAIN, THIS IS AN EVIDENCE
STUDENTS WHO HAVE DISPLAYED
BASED MENTORSHIP PROGRAM FOR
DISCIPLINE ISSUES.
STUDENTS WHO HAVE DISPLAYED
IT SUPPORTS STUDENTS STAYING IN
DISCIPLINE ISSUES.
SCHOOL.
IT SUPPORTS STUDENTS STAYING IN
THESE ARE IN SCHOOL PROGRAMS
SCHOOL.
IDENTIFIED BY COUNSELORS AND
THESE ARE IN SCHOOL PROGRAMS
OTHERS.
IDENTIFIED BY COUNSELORS AND
TEACHERS WITHIN THE PROGRAM
OTHERS.
IT'S IN THE LAST YEAR HELPED
TEACHERS WITHIN THE PROGRAM
TWENTY NINE STUDENTS STAY IN
IT'S IN THE LAST YEAR HELPED
SCHOOL WHICH WE KNOW HAS A
TWENTY NINE STUDENTS STAY IN
MATERIAL IMPACT ON THEIR FUTURE
SCHOOL WHICH WE KNOW HAS A
SUCCESS.
MATERIAL IMPACT ON THEIR FUTURE
>> SO WHILE I AM OBVIOUSLY
SUCCESS.
SUPPORTIVE OF WHAT THESE
>> SO WHILE I AM OBVIOUSLY
RESOLUTIONS WERE DISCUSSING WE
SUPPORTIVE OF WHAT THESE
ARE GOING TO FUND I WISH THAT
RESOLUTIONS WERE DISCUSSING WE
WE WOULD HAVE MORE TIME TO
ARE GOING TO FUND I WISH THAT
CONSIDER IF THERE ARE OTHER
WE WOULD HAVE MORE TIME TO
USES FOR THAT EIGHTY FIVE
CONSIDER IF THERE ARE OTHER
THOUSAND THAT MIGHT IMPACT
USES FOR THAT EIGHTY FIVE
POSITIVELY THOSE WHO ARE
THOUSAND THAT MIGHT IMPACT
ADJACENT TO THESE COMMUNITIES
POSITIVELY THOSE WHO ARE
AND WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY MAKE A
ADJACENT TO THESE COMMUNITIES
BIG DIFFERENCE.
AND WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY MAKE A
>> COUNCIL MEMBER GAZETTAL AND
BIG DIFFERENCE.
I THANK YOU MAYOR AND I ALSO
>> COUNCIL MEMBER GAZETTAL AND
WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THE
I THANK YOU MAYOR AND I ALSO
COMMENTS AT THIS TABLE,
WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THE
ESPECIALLY FROM COUNCIL MEMBER
COMMENTS AT THIS TABLE,
HARRISON IN REGARDS TO THE
ESPECIALLY FROM COUNCIL MEMBER
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
HARRISON IN REGARDS TO THE
PROGRAM.
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
I GUESS I WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR
PROGRAM.
THAT NO ONE AT THIS TABLE IS
I GUESS I WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR
SUPPORTING TAKING MONEY AWAY
THAT NO ONE AT THIS TABLE IS
FROM RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING.
SUPPORTING TAKING MONEY AWAY
WE KNOW THAT IT'S A WILDLY
FROM RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING.
SUCCESSFUL PROGRAM AND WE
WE KNOW THAT IT'S A WILDLY
REALLY THANK ALL OF YOU GUYS
SUCCESSFUL PROGRAM AND WE
FOR COMING HERE TODAY.
REALLY THANK ALL OF YOU GUYS
>> WHAT IS THE ISSUE IS THAT
FOR COMING HERE TODAY.
LAST YEAR ADDITION TO THE FIVE
>> WHAT IS THE ISSUE IS THAT
HUNDRED THOUSAND FOR RISING
LAST YEAR ADDITION TO THE FIVE
HOPE FOR HOUSING, WE ALSO GAVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND FOR RISING
MONEY TO EVICTION PREVENTION
HOPE FOR HOUSING, WE ALSO GAVE
AND ORGANIZATIONS SERVING OUR
MONEY TO EVICTION PREVENTION
YOUTH AND FROM TALKING TO
AND ORGANIZATIONS SERVING OUR
LEADERS OF THOSE ORGANIZATIONS
YOUTH AND FROM TALKING TO
,THE MAJORITY OF THE MONEY
LEADERS OF THOSE ORGANIZATIONS
THAT WAS USED PRIMARILY SERVE
,THE MAJORITY OF THE MONEY
BLACK AND BROWN CONSTITUENTS
THAT WAS USED PRIMARILY SERVE
PEOPLE IMPACTED BY THE CRIMINAL
BLACK AND BROWN CONSTITUENTS
LEGAL SYSTEM.
PEOPLE IMPACTED BY THE CRIMINAL
IF WE MOVE TO GIVE ALL OF THE
LEGAL SYSTEM.
MONEY THIS YEAR TO RISING HOPE
IF WE MOVE TO GIVE ALL OF THE
FOR HOUSING AND CREDIT, I
MONEY THIS YEAR TO RISING HOPE
UNDERSTAND TO ALWAYS BE MORE
FOR HOUSING AND CREDIT, I
NEED THAN WE CAN PROVIDE FOR
UNDERSTAND TO ALWAYS BE MORE
THOSE ORGANIZATIONS WILL LOSE
NEED THAN WE CAN PROVIDE FOR
MONEY.
THOSE ORGANIZATIONS WILL LOSE
SOME OF THOSE SOME OF THOSE
MONEY.
YOUTH WILL LOSE SERVICES.
SOME OF THOSE SOME OF THOSE
SO I WOULD JUST WANT TO MAKE
YOUTH WILL LOSE SERVICES.
CLEAR WHAT EXACTLY WE'RE
SO I WOULD JUST WANT TO MAKE
TALKING ABOUT AND THOSE
CLEAR WHAT EXACTLY WE'RE
PROGRAMS THAT MANY DEPEND ON
TALKING ABOUT AND THOSE
AND I GUESS I WANT TO ASK YOU
PROGRAMS THAT MANY DEPEND ON
THOUGH I GUESS I WOULD YIELD MY
AND I GUESS I WANT TO ASK YOU
TIME TO WHATEVER COUNCIL MEMBER
THOUGH I GUESS I WOULD YIELD MY
WANTS TO ANSWER THIS IF THAT
TIME TO WHATEVER COUNCIL MEMBER
MONEY ALL THE MARIJUANA ACCESS
WANTS TO ANSWER THIS IF THAT
TAX MONEY, YOU KNOW, THIS YEAR
MONEY ALL THE MARIJUANA ACCESS
IS MAYBE BEING ESSENTIALLY WHY
TAX MONEY, YOU KNOW, THIS YEAR
DURING LAST YEAR'S BUDGET
IS MAYBE BEING ESSENTIALLY WHY
PROCESS DID WE GIVE TWO HUNDRED
DURING LAST YEAR'S BUDGET
AND FIFTY THOUSAND TO YOUTH AND
PROCESS DID WE GIVE TWO HUNDRED
OTHER MONEY TO EVICTIONS THAT
AND FIFTY THOUSAND TO YOUTH AND
MONEY SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE TO
OTHER MONEY TO EVICTIONS THAT
THEM.
MONEY SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE TO
I BELIEVE IT WAS IN ALIGNMENT
THEM.
WITH RISING OR FOR THE PURPOSES
I BELIEVE IT WAS IN ALIGNMENT
OF THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
WITH RISING OR FOR THE PURPOSES
RESOLUTION THAT WE PASSED.
OF THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
SO I MEAN I WOULD LOVE IF ONE
RESOLUTION THAT WE PASSED.
OF MY COLLEAGUES HELPED ANSWER
SO I MEAN I WOULD LOVE IF ONE
THAT FOR ME BECAUSE I'M
OF MY COLLEAGUES HELPED ANSWER
CONFUSED FURTHER DISCUSSION
THAT FOR ME BECAUSE I'M
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON I DON'T
CONFUSED FURTHER DISCUSSION
THAT WAS A QUESTION.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON I DON'T
>> I'LL GO YOU JUST I I'M
THAT WAS A QUESTION.
COUNTING THIS IS ONE OF YOUR
>> I'LL GO YOU JUST I I'M
SPEAKING TIMES ON THE AMENDMENT
COUNTING THIS IS ONE OF YOUR
RIGHT ON THE ON THE AMENDMENT.
SPEAKING TIMES ON THE AMENDMENT
THANK ON THE AMENDMENT TO THE
RIGHT ON THE ON THE AMENDMENT.
AMENDMENT.
THANK ON THE AMENDMENT TO THE
>> CORRECT.
AMENDMENT.
I DON'T HAVE MUCH SAY ALTHOUGH
>> CORRECT.
YOU I IF YOU'RE ASKING IF I
I DON'T HAVE MUCH SAY ALTHOUGH
SUGGESTED THAT FUNDING
YOU I IF YOU'RE ASKING IF I
SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE TO THE
SUGGESTED THAT FUNDING
SOURCES THAT YOU REFERENCED LET
SHOULDN'T HAVE GONE TO THE
ME CLARIFY RIGHT HERE ON THE
SOURCES THAT YOU REFERENCED LET
RECORD THAT IS NOT WHAT I'M
ME CLARIFY RIGHT HERE ON THE
SAYING.
RECORD THAT IS NOT WHAT I'M
>> SO IT'S ALMOST LIKE A
SAYING.
QUESTION FOR ME SINCE I'M THE
>> SO IT'S ALMOST LIKE A
ONE THAT'S SPEAKING ABOUT
QUESTION FOR ME SINCE I'M THE
GIVING AN INCREASE OVER LAST
ONE THAT'S SPEAKING ABOUT
YEAR TO RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
GIVING AN INCREASE OVER LAST
.
YEAR TO RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING
>> WE GAVE INITIALLY FOUR
.
HUNDRED LAST YEAR WE LASTEAR
>> WE GAVE INITIALLY FOUR
WE INCREASED IT BY ONE HUNDRED.
HUNDRED LAST YEAR WE LASTEAR
MICHAEL, WHAT I WANTED WHEN I
WE INCREASED IT BY ONE HUNDRED.
HAD DISCUSSIONS WITH ONE OF MY
MICHAEL, WHAT I WANTED WHEN I
PEERS TO INCREASE IT TO ANOTHER
HAD DISCUSSIONS WITH ONE OF MY
AN ADDITIONAL HUNDRED SO THAT'S
PEERS TO INCREASE IT TO ANOTHER
REALLY WHAT I WAS FOCUSED ON
AN ADDITIONAL HUNDRED SO THAT'S
AND ROUNDED UP TO THE 116
REALLY WHAT I WAS FOCUSED ON
BECAUSE I DIDN'T KNOW THERE WAS
AND ROUNDED UP TO THE 116
ANYTHING COMPETING WITH IT.
BECAUSE I DIDN'T KNOW THERE WAS
SO THAT'S WHERE THAT'S WHERE MY
ANYTHING COMPETING WITH IT.
THAT'S WHERE THE 616 CAME FROM
SO THAT'S WHERE THAT'S WHERE MY
WAS BECAUSE I WAS TRYING TO
THAT'S WHERE THE 616 CAME FROM
INCREASE IT BASED ON THE
WAS BECAUSE I WAS TRYING TO
CONVERSATIONS I'VE HAD WITH
INCREASE IT BASED ON THE
WASHINGTON ON HOUSING ALLIANCE
CONVERSATIONS I'VE HAD WITH
AMANDA CARLISLE, DAN KELLY,
WASHINGTON ON HOUSING ALLIANCE
ADAM GRANT AND DISCUSSIONS
AMANDA CARLISLE, DAN KELLY,
ABOUT INFLATION AND THE RISING
ADAM GRANT AND DISCUSSIONS
COST OF HOUSING SO TO TO
ABOUT INFLATION AND THE RISING
CLARIFY THAT WAS WHY I
COST OF HOUSING SO TO TO
INCREASED ASKED FOR THE
CLARIFY THAT WAS WHY I
INCREASE JUST LIKE I DID LAST
INCREASED ASKED FOR THE
YEAR.
INCREASE JUST LIKE I DID LAST
>> IT DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
YEAR.
DO WITH YOU.
>> IT DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
YOUTH SERVICES OR YOU KNOW, IT
DO WITH YOU.
DIDN'T DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
YOUTH SERVICES OR YOU KNOW, IT
DO WITH ME THINKING THAT WHAT
DIDN'T DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
WE GAVE IT TO LAST YEAR THAT
DO WITH ME THINKING THAT WHAT
THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE RECEIVED IT
WE GAVE IT TO LAST YEAR THAT
AND FOCUSED SOLELY ON A PROGRAM
THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE RECEIVED IT
THAT'S GOT THE INFRASTRUCTURE
AND FOCUSED SOLELY ON A PROGRAM
CREATED AND THAT WORKS AMONG
THAT'S GOT THE INFRASTRUCTURE
WHAT IS IT HOW MANY
CREATED AND THAT WORKS AMONG
ORGANIZATIONS?
WHAT IS IT HOW MANY
>> UPWARDS OF 20 CLOSE TO 20
ORGANIZATIONS?
ORGANIZATIONS AND IT'S BEEN
>> UPWARDS OF 20 CLOSE TO 20
SUCCESSFUL.
ORGANIZATIONS AND IT'S BEEN
SO THAT'S ALL THAT I WAS
SUCCESSFUL.
COMMUNICATING TO BE CLEAR
SO THAT'S ALL THAT I WAS
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
COMMUNICATING TO BE CLEAR
YES.
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
CUSTOMER ZERO THANK YOU
.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY IT'S NOT
THAT I WAS INSINUATING THAT YOU
MONEY THIS YEAR IS BEING
PROPOSED FOR ANY REASON THAT'S
NOT IN ACCORDANCE I MEAN
QUESTIONS FOR THE BODY IN
GENERAL THAT IF I THINK I THINK
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT WE
REMEMBER THAT WE ARE TAKING
MONEY AWAY FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE
ALSO IN NEED AND I COMPLETELY
UNDERSTAND RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING.
THERE'S GOING TO BE MORE NEED
THAT WE CAN FUND.
I ALSO AGREE WITH FINDING OUT
THAT THERE'S ADDITIONAL MONEY
AVAILABLE EIGHTY FIVE THOUSAND
AT FOUR P.M. I WOULD LIKE US TO
HAVE MORE TIME TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT REALLY
WHAT IS WHAT IS IN BEST
ALIGNMENT WITH OUR MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX RESOLUTION THAT WE
PASSED IN REGARDS TO THE
PURPOSE OF THAT MONEY.
>> I WOULD LIKE MORE TIME I
BELIEVE COUNCIL MEMBER YOU'VE
SPOKEN TWICE ON THIS POINT.
>> YEAH, YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES
AT YOUR SPEAKING TIME.
YOU CHOSE TO SPEAK FURTHER, SAY
A MINUTE THAT YOU DON'T GET A
THIRD SPEAKING TIME.
YOUR MINUTE IS YOU HAVE THE
FLOOR TWICE THREE MINUTES, TWO
MINUTES.
I'M GOING TO STEP IN FOR MY OWN
PART AND SAY I'M GOING TO
SUPPORT THE AMENDMENT AS HAS
PROVIDED I'M INCREDIBLY
GRATEFUL FOR THE WORK THAT THAT
THAT RISING HOPE PROVIDES.
>> WE IN THE PAST HAVE SOURCED
400000 DOLLARS TO THEM THAT WAS
INCREASED TO FIVE HUNDRED LAST
YEAR.
WE ARE IN THE MIDST OF A
SERVICE AND NEED CRISIS
COMPETITION FOR SCARCE CITY
DOLLARS IS EXTREMELY HIGH AND
RISE AND AN INCREASING IN IN
OUR COMMUNITY NEVERTHELESS IT
IS AT THE VERY LEAST PROPOSED
TO MAINTAIN FUNDING BUT HERE IN
THE CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT TO
NEVERTHELESS CONTINUE TO
INCREASE FUNDING TO TYRANNIZING
HOPE FOR UP BY APPROXIMATELY 10
PERCENT.
AND I THINK THAT'S I'M I'M
BEHIND THAT.
I APPRECIATE THE CONCERN
OF LATE BREAKING NEWS AT THE
SAME TIME, I THINK THAT THE
PROGRAM HAS VALUE AND I'M
INTERESTED IN SEEING ITS ITS
FUNDING INCREASED AS BEST WE
CAN WHILE AT THE SAME TIME
LEAVING HEADROOM FOR THE BODY
TO LATER CONCLUDE THAT WE
PROVIDE OTHER EVICTION OTHER
EVICTION PREVENTION SERVICES
OF THE SORT THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S IDENTIFIED WHICH TO MY
UNDERSTANDING WOULD BE MET BY
THE FUNDING IDENTIFIED IN
AMENDMENT THREE.
>> THIS IS ALL TO SAY I THINK
THAT GIVEN THE AMOUNTS THAT WE
GAVE LAST CYCLE WERE CONSISTENT
WITH THE WITH THE RESOLUTION,
WITH THE INTENT OF OUR
RESOLUTION, THE AMOUNTS THAT
WE'RE GIVING THIS CYCLE I THINK
CONTINUE TO BE SO AS WELL.
>> THAT COUNTS MORE THAN THEN.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHO ELSE.
CASIMIR DISH.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
>> SO I WOULD VERY MUCH LIKE TO
THANK COUNCILMAN HARRISON FOR
AFFIRMING THE VALUES THAT I
THINK EVERYONE AT THIS TABLE
SHARES AS EVIDENCED BY OUR
WILLINGNESS OVER TIME TO NOT
ONLY FUND BUT INCREASE FUNDING
FOR RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING.
I REALLY APPRECIATE COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN FOR BEING SO
CLEAR THAT THE EFFORT HERE IS
NOT TO TAKE MONEY AWAY FROM
RISING HOPE FOR HOUSING AND I
UNDERSTAND WHY YOU ASK THE
QUESTION THAT YOU ASKED.
>> IT MADE SENSE TO ME AND I
SHARE YOUR PERCEPTION THAT ALL
OF THE THINGS THAT WE HAVE
FUNDED HISTORICALLY HAVE FIT IN
THE MISSION THAT WE AT ONE TIME
SAID WE WOULD HAVE FOR THE I
DON'T KNOW I GUESS I WAS ON
THAT ALTHOUGH I'M NOT SURE FOR
THE MARIJUANA MONEY.
I THINK THE CLARIFICATION THAT
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE IS JUST TO
MAKE IT PERFECTLY CLEAR THAT WE
TOOK A CUT IN THE AMOUNT
OF MARIJUANA MONEY THAT WE HAVE
HAD AVAILABLE IN THE PAST THAT
SOME OF IT WAS USED BY THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WHICH IS TOTALLY
FINE BECAUSE THAT IS HIS JOB TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE CONTINUED
SUPPORTING PROGRAMS THAT WE'RE
WORKING AND THAT WE HAD GIVEN
SUPPORT IN THE PAST AND SO WE
HAVE 400 ALMOST 400000 DOLLARS
LESS SO TO TO PROVIDE AN
INCREASE TO ONE ORGANIZATION IS
A BIG SHOW OF SUPPORT FOR THAT
ORGANIZATION TO CONTINUE TO
FUND AT THE COMPLETELY
INADEQUATE BUT THANK GOD WE CAN
DO IT.
EVICTION PREVENTION AT AROUND
300000 DOLLARS IS A BLESSING.
>> I AM REALLY ALSO NOT
THRILLED NOT TO BE ABLE TO
CONTINUE TO TO SUPPORT THE
CHECK IN AND CONNECT PROGRAM
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT IT'S
SUCCESSFUL AND I THINK IT
SERVES IT SERVES PEOPLE WHO ARE
VERY MUCH IN NEED AND IT
LEVERAGES OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
APS TO DO THAT WHICH I ALSO
THINK IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
>> BUT THE FACT IS IS THAT WE
HAVE LESS AND WE WERE VERY
LUCKY TO HAVE HAD THE FORESIGHT
TO REALIZE THAT THE CURRENT
FEDERAL ADMINISTRATION MIGHT BE
A COMPLETE DISASTER FOR SOCIAL
SAFETY SERVICES.
SO WE DID GET A MILLION DOLLARS
THERE TO SPEND BUT THAT MONEY
IS NOT REPLACING FUNDS THAT WE
HAD THAT MONEY WAS TO DEAL WITH
WHAT WE KNEW WOULD BE
CATASTROPHIC NEW CIRCUMSTANCES
AND THOSE NEW CIRCUMSTANCES ARE
PRESENTING CATASTROPHES THAT
ARE FAR GREATER THAN A MILLION
DOLLARS.
>> SO I DON'T THINK THAT THAT
THE ALLOCATION OF THAT MONEY
AFFECTS HOW WE THINK ABOUT THE
MARIJUANA MONEY.
I THINK THE REALITY IS THAT WE
HAVE TO MAKE A CUT I'M SORRY
THAT THINGS ARE CUT AND I THINK
THAT IT IS A STRONG SHOW
OF SUPPORT FOR RISING HOPE TO
PROVIDE AN INCREASE UNDER
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE WE HAVE
TAKEN A CUT.
>> SO I WILL SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
THANKS TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR THE
DEBATE THAT'S OCCURRED ALREADY
PARTICULARLY THE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR BRINGING THE
ORIGINAL AMENDMENT TO SPUR THIS
CONVERSATION AND TO CONTINUE
PROVIDING SUPPORT FOR FOR
RISING HELP FOR HOUSING.
>> I WANT TO ALSO ECHO THE
THANKS TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY WHO HAVE COME TO
SHARE THEIR STORIES AND TO TO
REALLY CONTINUE TO ADVOCATE FOR
A PROGRAM THAT'S CLEARLY BEEN
VERY SUCCESSFUL FOR THE
COMMUNITY THAT IT'S INTENDED TO
SERVE.
I ALSO AM INTERESTED IN SEEING
CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR FOR THE
PROGRAM AND AND TO SEE AN
INCREASE IN SUPPORT FOR THE
PROGRAM TO THE EXTENT THIS
AMENDMENT DOES THAT, I THINK I
AM GOING TO SUPPORT IT AS WELL
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THERE ARE
SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL NEEDS IN
THE COMMUNITY.
I TOO AM DISAPPOINTED THAT WE
ARE IN A SITUATION WHERE WE
HAVE A CRISIS OF NEED IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO SEE THIS CRISIS FOR THE NEXT
FOUR YEARS AS AS THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT UNDER THE CURRENT
ADMINISTRATION CONTINUES TO
HACK AWAY AT SOCIAL SERVICE
PROGRAMS THAT THE SOCIAL SAFETY
NET THAT WE VALUE SO MUCH HERE
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND SO WITH
ALL OF THOSE COMPETING NEEDS
AND THE ABILITY TO TO INCREASE
FUNDING FOR RISING HOPE FOR
HOUSING AGAIN THIS YEAR I AM
GOING TO SUPPORT THE AMENDMENT
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT TO THE AMENDMENT
WHICH TO REFRESH MY
RECOLLECTION WOULD ADJUST
AMENDMENT ONE FROM SIX 16 TO
SIX FROM SIX 16 TO FIVE SIXTY
FIVE CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE START
WITH COUNCILMAN BRIAN.
YES BECAUSE OF OUR AKMAN YES.
THAT'S OUR BRIGS.
YES THAT'S RIGHT CORNELL.
YES OUR DISH YES.
ELSMERE HARRISON YES.
CUSTOMER WATSON YES.
TELL SIMILAR YES CUSTOMER DENHA
YES.
THOSE 01 YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
MOTION CARRIES FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE ME OF THE
AMENDMENT AS AMENDED COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON I JUST WANT TO
JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I'M
GRATEFUL TO THE BODY FOR
CONSIDERING A SORT OF A
COMPROMISE RESOLUTION HERE.
I ALSO WANT TO SAY, YOU KNOW,
I'M GRATEFUL THAT WE'RE ABLE TO
INCREASE OUR SUPPORT IN TERMS
OF LAST YEAR FROM FIVE HUNDRED
TO FIVE SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND FOR
RISING HOPE.
IT'S AMAZING WORK.
>> IT'S THE SERVICE PROVIDERS
WHO TELL US THE FLEXIBILITY
OF THE FUNDS IS VERY, VERY
USEFUL.
I'VE HAD JUDGES REACH OUT TO ME
AND SAY, YOU KNOW WHERE THE
CITY IS IS REALLY HELPING
PEOPLE WHO GET CAUGHT IN THE
SYSTEM IN ANY NUMBER OF WAYS.
SO I'M JUST GRATEFUL TO COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON.
I'M AND I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
THE RESULTS OF THIS PROGRAM AS
IT CONTINUES FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENT
REGRETTABLY TO
FOUR TO
FURTHER DISCUSS THE
AMENDMENT OF THE OF THE
AMENDMENT AS AMENDED ROLL CALL
VOTE PLEASE STARTING TO COUNT
MEMBER IHR CUSTOMER HE YES
CUSTOMER YES SIR BRIGS YES.
CUSTOMER KORNEL YES.
CUSTOMER DISH YES.
CUSTOMER KERISSA YES.
CUSTOMER WATSON YES.
CUSTOMER MALLICK YES.
CUSTOMER DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER 01 YES MARIANELA YES.
>> I ENCOURAGE FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF DSA COUNCIL
MEMBER BRAKE'S YES I WOULD LIKE
TO MOVE AMENDMENT TWO WHICH IS
RESOLUTION TO PREVENT ROADWAY
FATALITIES AND SERIOUS INJURIES
ON MAJOR STREETS.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN CORNELL COUNCILMAN
BRIGGS YOU STILL ON THE FLOOR?
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH SO
AS
FOLKS MAY KNOW, MAJOR STREETS
ARE TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OF OUR
TOTAL STREETS IN ANN ARBOR BUT
THEY EXPERIENCE EIGHTY NINE
PERCENT OF THE SEVERE AND FATAL
TRAFFIC CRASHES AND THAT'S THE
BASIS FOR THIS AMENDMENT.
>> I WANTED TO JUST BRIEFLY GO
OVER SOME OF OUR COUNCIL
HISTORY ON THIS AND PLANNING
HISTORY JUST TO WHY WE'RE WHY
WE'RE HERE TODAY.
>> SO IN JUNE OF TWENTY TWENTY
WE ADOPTED OUR VISION ZERO
TRANSPORTATION PLAN IN MAY
OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE IN FISCAL
YEAR.
TWENTY TWO BUDGET COUNCIL
FUNDED THE MAJOR STREETS
TRAFFIC CALMING PROGRAM.
THEN IN OCTOBER OF THAT YEAR WE
CONTRACTED WITH SAM SCHWARTZ TO
DEVELOP THE VISION ZERO ACTION
PLAN TO GUIDE QUICK BUILD
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOP
THE MAJOR STREETS SPEED
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
THE OUTCOME OF THAT WAS THE
MAJOR STREET SPEED MANAGEMENT
TOOLBOX WHICH YOU CAN FIND IN
CS WEBSITE AND IT PROVIDES A
ROADMAP OF HOW WE CAN
RECONFIGURE OUR MAJOR STREETS
AND MAKE THEM SAFER.
NO NOVEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE COUNCIL DIRECTED THE
ACCELERATION
OF RECONFIGURATIONS ON MAJOR
ROADS WHICH DIRECTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR UTILIZE SPEED
MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS AS WELL AS
THE ANNUAL RESURFACING AND
RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
OF CAPITAL PROJECTS TO EVALUATE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ROAD
RECONFIGURATIONS AND
INCORPORATE INTO THE ANNUAL
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
IMPROVEMENTS WORKPLAN AND WITH
THE GOAL OF RECONFIGURING
MULTILINE ROADS TO ADVANCE THE
CITY'S SAFETY AND
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS.
IN AUGUST OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
WE DIRECTED THE TRANSFER
OF TRUNK LINES BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT OUR OUR OUR MAIN ROADWAYS
ARE SADLY SOME OF THE MOST
DANGEROUS IN OUR CITY.
AND JUST LAST MONTH WE FUNDED
AN ENGINEERING ANALYSIS TO
DETERMINE HOW TO RECONFIGURE
OUR MULTI LANE ROADS.
SO THIS IS A LONG PROCESS THAT
WE'VE BEEN AT AND TRYING TO
MAKE PROGRESS ON MAKING OUR
MAJOR STREETS SAFER.
AND WHILE THERE ARE A LOT
OF GOOD TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
OCCURRING IN THIS BUDGET THAT
ARE GUIDED BY OUR VISION ZERO
PLAN, THERE ISN'T ANY FUNDING
TO MOVE OUR QUICK BUILD SAFETY
PROJECTS FORWARD ON OUR MAJOR
ROADS.
>> SO WE DON'T HAVE ANY WAY TO
DO ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS ON
MAJOR ROADS OUTSIDE OF CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECTS.
SO WE NEED FUNDING FOR THAT.
SO THAT'S WHAT THIS AMENDMENT
WILL DO PROVIDES 501 MILLION
FOR THE QUICK BUILDS PROJECTS
TO IMPROVE SAFETY AND ACCESS TO
OUR MAJOR STREETS OUTSIDE OF A
MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECT AND IN
DOING SO IT'LL ALSO INCREASE
WE'LL SEE AN INCREASE STILL IN
CAPITAL PREVENTATIVE
MAINTENANCE ON OUR MAJOR
STREETS INCREASE OF ONE POINT
SEVEN DOLLARS MILLION OVER LAST
YEAR'S BUDGET.
>> THE INTENT OF THESE QUICK
BUILD FUNDS IS TWOFOLD ONE,
IT'S TO HAVE ONGOING FUNDING
FOR A QUICK BUILD PROGRAM.
WE SHOULDN'T NEED TO WAIT FOUR
YEARS UNTIL A CAPITAL PROJECT
CAN MOVE FORWARD TO FIX KNOWN
SAFETY ISSUES IN OUR
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK ONES
THAT PEOPLE HAVE NOTED TONIGHT
AND WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THERE IS ACTUALLY FUNDING IN
THIS YEAR'S BUDGET TO ADVANCE
PROJECTS THAT WILL EMERGE FROM
THE MULTI LANE RECONFIGURATION
STUDY THAT WE THAT WE FUNDED
LAST MONTH.
>> SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
BY NEXT YEAR WE'RE ACTUALLY
ACTING ON THAT AND THAT'S GOING
TO REQUIRE MONEY THIS YEAR TO
BE ABLE TO TAKE ACTION TO
COUNCIL RACKMAN, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS GOING TO
BE SOMEWHAT REPETITIVE BUT
HOPEFULLY FILL SOME GAPS.
THE REASON I'M COSPONSORING
THIS AMENDMENT IS BECAUSE IT
ENSURES WE CAN ACT QUICKLY ON
SOME OF THE SAFETY
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WILL COME
OUT OF THE MULTI LANE ROAD
CONFIGURATION STUDY THAT WE
APPROVED LAST MONTH THESE ARE
THE ROADS WHERE THE SERIOUS
INJURIES AND FATALITIES ARE
MOST LIKELY TO HAPPEN LIKE THE
CRASH ON PLYMOUTH THAT'S BEEN
MENTIONED A COUPLE OF TIMES
TONIGHT.
WE SHOULDN'T HAVE TO WAIT FOR A
FULL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT TO MAKE THEM SAFER.
SO AS A REMINDER THE
RECONFIGURE AND EVALUATION
STUDY THAT WE JUST APPROVED
FUNDING FOR IS TO ANALYZE AND
IDENTIFY OPPORTUNITIES TO RE
PRIORITIZE THE ROADWAY SPACE
SORRY THIS IS ABOUT THE ROAD
CONFIGURATION ONE TO
PRIORITIZED ROADWAY SPACE TO
ADVANCE SAFETY LOWER VEHICLE
SPEEDS, IMPROVE TRANSIT
OPERATIONS AND CREATE CONNECTED
COMFORTABLE WALKING AND CYCLING
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THIS COULD INCLUDE DEDICATED
LANE FOR BUS RAPID TRANSIT THAT
COULD INCLUDE A LOT OF THINGS.
SO QUICK RAIL PROJECTS ARE A
PROVEN WAY FOR CITIES TO MOVE
FASTER.
YOU CAN PILOT NEW STREET
DESIGNS, GET FEEDBACK, MAKE
REAL SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
IDEALLY IN THE TIMELINE
OF MONTHS INSTEAD OF YEARS,
MANY OF THESE ELEMENTS CAN BE
TURNED INTO PERMANENT
INFRASTRUCTURE LATER AND STREET
I THINK IS ONE LOCAL EXAMPLE
WHERE SOME QUICK BUILDS BUMP
OUTS OUR STAFF IS PLANNING TO
MAKE THOSE INTO PERMANENT CURBS
AS PART OF THAT ROAD PROJECT.
BUT AGAIN WE WERE ABLE TO
IMPLEMENT BUMP.
IT'S A LOT FASTER THAN WE COULD
TO WAIT FOR THIS AND STREET
PROJECT.
SO THIS IS ABOUT MAKING SURE
OUR STREETS ARE NOT JUST SMOOTH
BUT SAFE.
SO I THINK SPENDING THE MONEY
IN THIS WAY IS VERY CONSISTENT
.
FURTHERMORE, CONSISTENT WITH
ALL OF THE RESOLUTIONS THAT
MANY PEOPLE HAVE MENTIONED
ALREADY THAT WE HAVE PASSED,
YOU KNOW, I THINK STAFF IS
DOING AN EXCELLENT JOB
OF INCORPORATING MULTIMODAL
IMPROVEMENTS INTO CAPITAL
PROJECTS.
ALMOST EVERY MAJOR ROAD PROJECT
I CAN THINK OF OVER RECENT
HISTORY INCORPORATES SOME
OF THESE THINGS INCLUDING STATE
STREET'S UPCOMING DEDICATED
BUSTLINE.
BUT WHAT THIS AMENDMENT DOES IS
GIVE THEM THE RESOURCES TO
EXTEND THAT KIND OF WORK BEYOND
MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECTS THAT WE
CAN RESPOND TO URGENT NEEDS
MORE QUICKLY.
>> COUNCIL MCCONNELL, THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU TOO.
I FEEL LIKE I HAVE TO TALK NOW
THAT WE'VE CALLED THE ABC
CAUCUS BUT ACTUALLY I HAVE
SOMETHING THAT I WANTED TO ADD
TO MY TRANSPORTATION THOSE MY
COLLEAGUES YOU HAVE MUCH MORE
EXPERTIZE IN THAT MY INTEREST
IN THIS IS ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
I WANT TO HELP ATTRACT WORKERS
TO OUR CITY, RETAIN PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO LIVE AND WORK HERE AND
ATTRACT BUSINESSES HERE.
AND SO I WENT DIGGING TO FIND
TO EDUCATE MYSELF AND WHAT
THOSE SPECIFIC IMPACTS ARE AND
I JUST WANTED TO SHARE SOME
OF THE FINDINGS OF A STUDY FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA.
THE RESEARCHERS INVESTIGATED
THE ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF SMALL
STREET PROJECTS ON SMALL CITIES
AND DEVELOPED EVALUATION
METRICS TO ASSESS AND
COMMUNICATE THESE IMPACTS AND
THE IMPACTS THAT WERE
SPECIFICALLY STUDIED WERE
ELEMENTS SUCH AS SIDEWALKS,
BIKE LANES AND PEDESTRIAN
CROSSINGS.
SO THINGS WERE THIS IS EXACTLY
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THOSE
ROAD SAFETY CHANGES IMPACTED
SIGNIFICANTLY THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY PROPERTY VALUES AND
TOTAL PRIVATE INVESTMENT WITHIN
THE COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT LEVELS
ROSE AND ALL OF THE CITIES THAT
WERE STUDIED AND IN SOME CASES
SIGNIFICANTLY COMMUNITIES
REPORTED INCREASED NET NEW
BUSINESS GAINS AFTER THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS AND THOSE FINDINGS
SUGGESTS THAT THESE TYPES
OF PROJECTS MAKE STREETS MORE
DESIRABLE FOR BUSINESSES
BECAUSE MORE PEOPLE OF VARYING
MODES OF TRANSPORTATION CAN BE
THEIR CUSTOMERS AND EIGHT
OF THE TEN COMMUNITIES THAT
WERE STUDIED PROPERTY VALUES
ACROSS THE CITY WENT UP AS
WELL.
>> A CITY AN ANOTHER EXAMPLE A
SERIES OF SIMILAR ROAD SAFETY
PROJECTS IN SEATTLE HAD NO
NEGATIVE IMPACT ON LOCAL
BUSINESSES BOTTOM LINES AND IN
FACT THE DATA CONCLUDED THAT
THOSE PROJECTS DID AGAIN BOOST
THEIR NET PROFITS.
>> SO THAT KIND OF UNDERMINES
THE PERSISTENT MYTH THAT
SOMEHOW SLOWING TRAFFIC DOWN,
MAKING OUR ROADS SAFER IMPACTS
NEGATIVELY OUR BUSINESS
COMMUNITY AND I THINK YOU'VE
HEARD MORE THAN ONCE THAT THAT
IS SOMETHING THAT I'M
CHAMPIONING FOR HERE AT THIS
TABLE AND IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
I THINK TO OUR DOWNTOWN.
SO THIS IS DEFINITELY ABOUT
PEDESTRIAN BIKE.
>> HOWEVER YOU WANT TO TRAVEL
OUR ROADS ARE SAFER WHEN WE PUT
THEM ON ROAD DIETS WE INTRODUCE
SOME OF THESE QUICK BUILD
PROJECTS NOT JUST FOR
BICYCLISTS AND PEDESTRIANS BUT
FOR ALL MODES OF TRANSPORTATION
AND HAPPY HAPPY NEWS FOR ALL
OF US.
IT ACTUALLY INCREASES OUR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS,
MAKES OUR TRAFFIC AND MAKES OUR
TOWN MORE ATTRACTIVE FOR PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO LIVE AND WORK HERE
AND BUSINESSES WHO WANT TO
ESTABLISH AND GROW HERE.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK
YOU MAYOR AND THANK YOU TO THE
ABC CAUCUS FOR BRINGING THIS
THIS AMENDMENT FORWARD.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK ALL OF THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO ARE HERE
TODAY ADVOCATING ON BEHALF
OF THIS.
I'M SORRY YOU HAVE TO BE I KNOW
THAT WE'VE HEARD FROM YOU
REPEATEDLY KIND OF BEGGING US
TO PROTECT YOU WHEN YOU'RE OUT
USING OUR INFRASTRUCTURE AND I
KNOW THAT A COUPLE OF YOU HERE
IN THIS ROOM HAVE ALSO COME TO
US AFTER THOSE ACCIDENTS AND
AND AND INDICATED THAT IF WE'RE
SERIOUS ABOUT VISION ZERO THEN
WE SHOULDN'T HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL
THERE'S A MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECT
OR AN A MAJOR IMPROVEMENT IN
ORDER TO MAKE THE SAFETY THE
SAFETY CHANGES THAT WE NEED IN
THOSE AREAS BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT THEY'RE DANGEROUS AND SO I
AM HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT.
I WILL ALSO ADD THAT I THINK
THAT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT YOU
KNOW, I IMAGINE THAT THE
SPONSORS I IMAGINE THAT MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY I THINK ALL
OF US WOULD HOPE THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE'LL BE ABLE TO
CONTINUE TO FUND IN PERPETUITY
SO THAT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE HAVE REGULARLY ON HAND AND
THIS ISN'T A FIGHT EVERY BUDGET
CYCLE.
THE ONE THING THAT THAT I HOPE
WE CAN CONTINUE TO HAVE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IS WHERE
THIS FUNDING COMES FROM LONG
TERM.
OBVIOUSLY WE KNOW THAT THAT THE
BUDGETS ARE ARE CHALLENGING FOR
ALL OF US AND SO I'M GRATEFUL
THAT THIS YEAR WE'RE ABLE TO
PULL IT FROM THIS FUND AND
CONTINUE TO INCREASE OUR
FUNDING FOR FOR PREVENTATIVE
MAINTENANCE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I'D LIKE
TO DO IF AT ALL POSSIBLE IS TO
FIND A STEADY STREAM OF FUNDING
FOR THIS LONG TERM THAT DOESN'T
CONTINUE TO PULL AWAY FROM THAT
AS WE'VE JUST COME OFF OF A
BONDING CYCLE WHERE WE WERE
TRYING TO CATCH UP ON OUR LACK
OF PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I'M HAPPY TO
CONTINUE TO ENGAGE IN DIALOG
AROUND WHAT THAT MIGHT LOOK
LIKE AS WE MOVE FORWARD SO THAT
WE CAN MAKE SURE THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE CONTINUING
TO FUND IN THE FUTURE WHILE
ALSO KIND OF CONTINUING TO
HONOR OUR COMMITMENTS TO TO
MAINTAINING OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
.
>> BUT THANK YOU FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD AND I'M HAPPY TO
SUPPORT IT TONIGHT, COUNCILMAN
,BECAUSE HE HAD ONE.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE ABC
CAUCUS FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD TONIGHT AND I ALSO WANT
TO THANK ALL OF YOU FOR COMING
AND CONSISTENTLY KIND
OF PUSHING US TO MAKE BETTER
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
SAFER FOR ALL COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
IT'S A UNACCEPTABLE HOW MANY
ACCIDENTS AND DEATHS THAT THERE
HAVE BEEN.
THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES RECENTLY REACHED OUT TO
ME ABOUT THE DEATH OF A PERSON
IN A WHEELCHAIR ACROSS YOUR OWN
PARKWAY, YOUR SPECTACLE WHETHER
YOU HAVE A DISABILITY YOU
SHOULDN'T BE HIT BY YOUR CAR
AND YOU SHOULDN'T EXPERIENCE
INJURY AND I AGREE THAT WELL
FIRSTLY I ALSO SUPPORT THIS I
WOULD LOVE TO FOR MY NAME TO
ALSO BE ADDED TO IT AS A
SPONSOR AND I HOPE THAT WE CAN
FIND AN ONGOING STREAM
OF FUNDING FOR THIS SO IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE SOMETHING
THAT YOU AS AN ADVOCATE FOR
SAFETY SHOULDN'T BE OPTIONAL.
SO THANK YOU CARL ZIMMER MALIK
,THANK YOU.
I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS TONIGHT
EITHER FOR STAFF OR THE
ADMINISTRATOR.
THE ADMINISTRATORS PROPOSED
BUDGET PROPOSED EIGHT MILLION
DOLLARS FOR CAPITAL
PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE IN
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
IS THERE A REASON THAT SPECIFIC
AMOUNT WAS CHOSEN FOR THIS LINE
ITEM IN THE SECOND QUESTION
CONNECTED TO THAT IS ARE THERE
ANY SPECIFIC PROJECTS THAT
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO MOVE
FORWARD BECAUSE OF THIS
AMENDMENT?
THE SECOND QUESTION FIRST
ANSWER IS NO.
THERE'S FUNDING AVAILABLE IN
THAT PARTICULAR POT THAT
COULDN'T POSSIBLY BE FULLY
EXECUTED UPON.
SO NOTHING IS SUFFERING AS A
RESULT OF THIS DECISION.
SHOULD YOU CHOOSE TO SUPPORT
IT?
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, KATZMANN
DISH SORRY WATSON DISTIN WATSON
.
I WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUES
FOR THIS PROPOSAL AMENDMENT
SORRY AND I WANTED TO SPEAK
FROM THE WARD ONE PERSPECTIVE
FIRST I WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT
OUT TO THE PUBLIC COMMENTATOR
WHO SPOKE ABOUT HAVING FEARS
EVERY TIME THEY HOP ON THEIR
BIKE.
>> I AM BIKING A LOT AND I HAVE
THAT SAME THOUGHT GO THROUGH MY
HEAD.
>> IS THIS GOING TO BE THE DAY
I GET HIT AND THE CONNECTIVITY
FROM WARD ONE TO THE CENTER
OF THE CITY IS NOT GREAT SO I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE IT GET BETTER
AND I KNOW THAT AND I'M REALLY
GRATEFUL TO STAFF FOR THE
PROJECT PROPOSED.
HOWEVER LONG IT TAKES ON
DAVOREN BECAUSE THAT'S KEY.
I REALLY LIKE THE POINTS THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL MADE
ABOUT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE NORTH MAINE IS A PLACE
WHERE THINGS COME AND GO AND
IT'S NOT A NICE PLACE TO WALK
AND IT'S CERTAINLY NOT A NICE
PLACE TO BIKE.
>> SO CHANGES IN THAT ROAD IF
WE'RE ABLE TO TAKE IT OVER, IF
WE JUST CHANGE IT ANYWAY
WITHOUT TAKING IT OVER, I THINK
THAT WOULD BE SOME SIGNIFICANT
STEAM FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
.
WHAT DID I KNOW ANYWAY SO
SELFISHLY I WOULD LIKE TO BE
ADDED TO THIS AMENDMENT AND
THEN YOU CAN JUST FOR ONE NIGHT
BE THE ABCDE FOR FOR EGGLAND
CAUCUS COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON I
WANT TO THANK ALL THE ACTIVISTS
WHO CAME OUT HERE TONIGHT BUT I
DID WANT TO GIVE A SPECIFIC
THANK YOU TO TO PETE HOKE
BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHEN THERE WAS
FATALITY INWARD TO ON PLYMOUTH
ROAD HE TOOK ME AND COUNCIL
MEMBER MALNIK OUT TO WALK THAT
SCENE AND YOU KNOW, I GO BY
THERE EVERY DAY, YOU KNOW, YOU
CAN'T LIVE ON THE NORTHEAST
SIDE OF ANARCHY WITHOUT GETTING
ON TWENTY FEET FROM TIME TO
TIME.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, WHILE WE WERE
THERE THERE WERE A LOT
OF THINGS THAT WE PICKED UP ON
INCLUDING SEEING SOMEONE MAKE
THE DASH ACROSS THE EXACT SAME
WAY THAT HAD KIND OF RESULTED
IN A FATALITY.
>> SO I JUST REALLY APPRECIATE
PEOPLE FOR TAKING THE TIME.
YOU KNOW, THE ACTIVIST PEOPLE
TAKING THE TIME TO COME
DOWNTOWN DOWN HERE BUT ALSO
PEOPLE WHO TAKE TIME TO KIND
OF HAVE THESE KIND OF ONE ON
ONE INFORMATIVE CONVERSATIONS
AND I REALLY, REALLY HOPE THIS
MONEY IS USED WELL.
I KNOW WILL BE USED TO IMPROVE
SAFETY BUT I ALSO YOU KNOW,
TROUBLE SPOTS THROUGHOUT THE
CITY AND SOME OF THEM I'M VERY
FAMILIAR WITH AND I'M GLAD AND
GRATEFUL TO THE CO-SPONSORS FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS WENT
INTO.
THANKS FOLKS FOR JOINING US.
CO-SPONSOR AND FOR EVERYBODY
WHO CAME OUT TONIGHT AND KEEPS
COMING OUT AND TALKING TO US
ABOUT HOW IMPORTANT THIS IS AND
MAKING THE CASE AND AND SHARING
THE STORIES, SHARING YOUR
PERSONAL STORIES AND SHARING
THE STORIES OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN KILLED OR SERIOUSLY
INJURED IN OUR COMMUNITY.
THIS IS WHY WE'RE DOING IT.
I AGREE WE NEED TO FIND STABLE
SOURCE OF FUNDING FOR THIS.
I DO THINK THIS IS A YOU KNOW,
IT'S A GOOD SOURCE OF FUNDING.
IT'S OUR MAJOR STREETS FUND.
WE'RE DOING WORK ON MAJOR
STREETS.
IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S IMPORTANT
WORK THAT WE KNOW THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE.
>> WE'VE HEARD CALLS FOR
STADIUM AND RECONFIGURATION
OF THAT AND YEAH, SELFISHLY I
IT IS ONE OF THE ONES THAT I
WOULD LOVE TO SEE RECONFIGURED
FIRST I'LL SHARE MY OWN
PERSONAL STORY FROM FROM
YESTERDAY AS I HAD TO GO GET A
LAST MINUTE PIE TO GO GIVE TO
THE PICNIC PERHAPS AT PIONEER
HIGH SCHOOL FOR THAT WALK.
>> BUT I YOU KNOW, BIKED UP TO
THE STADIUM BOULEVARD AND HAD
TO BIKE DOWN STADIUM AND
UNPROTECTED LANES THAT WERE
REALLY QUITE NARROW AND A
LITTLE BIT WIDER AS IT GOES
DOWN THE ROADS.
DIETZE AS YOU'RE HEADING
TOWARDS PIONEER HIGH SCHOOL
THERE'S MORE SPACE THERE WHICH
IS GREAT BUT STILL UNPROTECTED.
AND THEN WHAT HAPPENS RIGHT
WHEN YOU GET IN FRONT OF THE
HIGH SCHOOL THE LANES DROP
ENTIRELY RIGHT IN FRONT OF OUR
HIGH SCHOOL AND THIS IS WHAT
WE'RE ASKING ASKING ANYBODY TO
DO MYSELF CHILDREN.
>> IT'S IT'S NOT IT'S YOU KNOW,
WE KNOW BETTER THAN WE HAVE THE
DATA WE HAVE THE STUDIES.
>> WE KNOW WHAT THE FUTURE
OF TRANSPORTATION LOOKS LIKE.
>> WE NEED TO BE, YOU KNOW,
RECONFIGURING THESE STREETS AS
FAST AS WE CAN TELL SOME
HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK MY PEERS
FOR THEIR HARD WORK ON THIS
VERY IMPORTANT AMENDMENT.
I ALSO BEING ON THE NORTH SIDE
THE NIGHT UH THAT THE
INDIVIDUAL WAS HIT AND KILLED
PLYMOUTH ROAD MY HUSBAND AND I
WERE COMING BACK FROM THE
AIRPORT AND WE PASSED MUST HAVE
BEEN, YOU KNOW, NOT MUCH AFTER
WHAT HAPPENED DURING THE
PANDEMIC.
>> I SHOP AT A LITTLE BOOGY
STORE OVER THERE CALLED A
MARKET AND MY MY MY SPOUSE AND
I USED TO SEE INDIVIDUALS
CROSSING THE STREET AT THAT
SAME AREA AND THIS WAS DURING
THE PANDEMIC WHEN THERE WEREN'T
AS MANY CARS ON THE ROAD AND I
EVEN THEN IT WAS LIKE IT WOULD
REALLY I WOULD BE REALLY
TERRIFIED FOR PEOPLE SEEING
THEM JUST KIND OF RUN ACROSS
THE STREET TO THE GAS STATION
AND IT I KNEW IT WAS
PROBLEMATIC THEN AND JUST
IMAGINE IT WAS LIKE NOT AS MANY
CARS REFERENCING DUVAN THAT I
USED TO BIKE UP AND DOWN
DAVOREN I ACTUALLY DON'T REALLY
DO IT TOO MUCH ANYMORE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY IT'S
BECAUSE I'M TOO BUSY BUT THAT'S
REALLY NOT THE ONLY REASON.
IT'S JUST BECAUSE I DON'T FEEL
SAFE BIKING UP AND DOWN DUVAN
ROAD SO THIS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND YOU KNOW,
HOPEFULLY I ALSO THINK THE
ACTIVISTS FOR COMING OUT UM AND
MAKING YOUR VOICES HEARD AND SO
I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED I DO
THIS OR I WOULD LIKE TO GET AS
A CO-SPONSOR AND THANK YOU ALL
FOR YOUR WORK ON THIS FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
>> COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN, YOU YOU
KNOW, I DON'T THINK IT STRUCK
ME UNTIL I WAS LISTENING TO
EVERYBODY AT THIS TABLE IF YOU
DON'T LIVE NEAR THE CENTER
OF THE CITY, YOU HAVE TO
TRAVERSE AT LEAST ONE AND MAYBE
TWO OF THESE TO GET ACROSS TOWN
.
ME PERSONALLY TO GET TO THE
CITY COUNCIL MEETING TONIGHT I
HAVE TO CROSS STADIUM AND I
HAVE TO NAVIGATE HERE AND BOTH
OF THEM FEEL PRETTY HARROWING
TO ME.
I DO MY BEST.
I DO THINGS THAT YOU'RE NOT
SUPPOSED TO DO AS A CYCLIST
LIKE RIGHT ON THE SIDEWALK ON
HERE VERY SLOWLY AND CAREFULLY
BECAUSE I DON'T FEEL SAFE BEING
IN THE ROAD AND YOU KNOW, I
THINK HEARING ABOUT YOUR
EXPERIENCES OVER ON THE NORTH
SIDE LIKE I DON'T EVEN GO THAT
FAR.
I DON'T HAVE TO CROSS THREE BUT
SO I DON'T KNOW IT'S JUST
REALLY STRIKING WHEN WE THINK
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, BUILDING
HIGHER DENSITY DEVELOPMENT ON
THESE CORRIDORS AND THEN ALSO
ENSURING THAT NOT ONLY IS OUR
DOWNTOWN A PLACE THAT PEOPLE
CAN SAFELY GET AROUND BUT THAT
YOU CAN DO SO FROM YOU KNOW,
THE FURTHER OUTSIDE OF THE
DOWNTOWN ACROSS THE CITY.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON THEN JUST
QUICKLY TO SAY I'D LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR THANKS
FOR THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED THE AMENDMENT IS
APPROVED AMENDMENT NUMBER
THREE.
OH WELL OK NOW IS THERE ANYBODY
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK NEXT
COUNCILOR WATSON OH NO I JUST
ROLLED YEAH.
MOVING THE THREE AMENDMENT
APPROACH WILL APPROPRIATE ONE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY SIX WE'LL
HAVE TO EDIT THAT ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY SIX THOUSAND FROM THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX REBATE TO
EVICTION PREVENTION 106 LET'S
SAY SIXTEEN THE SECOND BY
COUNCILOR CASEY.
>> COUNCILOR WATSON, YOU STOLE
THE FLOOR OK?
I
AM GOING TO SEND AROUND AN
AMENDMENT INCLUDING I GUESS TO
THE TITLE HERE.
>> OK, OK SO MY AMENDMENT TO
AMENDMENT ONE IT AMENDS WHEREAS
CLAUSE THE SECOND TO LAST
WHEREAS CLAUSE IT ADDS WILL
TAKE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEEN
THOUSAND TO ONE HUNDRED THIRTY
SIX THOUSAND AND IT WILL ALSO
IT WILL ALSO TAKE THE NUMBER
OF HOUSEHOLDS HELPED FROM SIXTY
FIVE TO SEVENTY FIVE AND IT
WILL ALSO THE FINAL RESULT
OF COURSE WILL BE ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY WILL MOVE 116 TO THIRTY
SIX THOUSAND FIRST RESOLVE
CLAUSE OR THE FIRST RESULT AND
NOW I GUESS I'M ASKING YOU AND
THE TITLE AS WELL IN THE TITLE
AS WELL SIXTEEN THOUSAND ONE
THIRTY FIVE YEAH TWENTY ONE
THIRTY SIX THANK YOU.
AND I THINK THAT JUST CAME
AROUND SO PEOPLE CAN IS THERE A
SECOND TO THAT AMENDMENT TO THE
COUNCIL I COUNTER A DENHA IS
THAT AMENDMENT THE AMENDMENT
FRIENDLY.
>> EXCELLENT COUNCILOR WATSON
STOLE THE FLOOR WITH RESPECT TO
THE AMENDED AMENDMENT AT ONE
THIRTY SIX.
>> OK, RIGHT.
YES.
I JUST WANT TO AND TO SPEAK ON
ON THIS AMENDMENT FOR EVICTION
PREVENTION YOU KNOW EVICTION
PREVENTION IS A REALLY
SUCCESSFUL PROGRAM.
IT'S ALSO A PROGRAM NOW THAT WE
HAVE ABOUT THREE FISCAL YEARS
OF DATA ON.
>> SO IT'S FUNDING FOR THE
CITY.
IT'S THREE FISCAL YEARS.
IT'S ACTUALLY ABOUT NINETEEN
MONTHS.
THAT'S HOW QUICKLY WE ARE ABLE
TO GET THESE FUNDS OUT THE DOOR
AND SPEND THEM DOWN SO OVER
THAT, YOU KNOW.
NINETEEN MONTHS THE CITY HAS
SPENT EIGHT HUNDRED AND
FOURTEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS ON
EVICTION PREVENTION.
WE'VE HELPED FOUR HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FIVE HOMES AND YOU KNOW
WE'VE TALKED A BIT ABOUT THE
SPECIFICS OF THE DEMOGRAPHICS
YOU KNOW.
>> SIXTY PERCENT FAMILIES WITH
CHILDREN.
SEVENTY SIX PERCENT FEMALE.
SIXTY NINE PERCENT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN.
>> YOU KNOW THE OTHER ANOTHER
KEY STATISTIC IS FIFTY SIX
PERCENT ARE IN OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION PROGRAM PARTICIPANT.
SO THAT JUST MEANS THAT WE'RE
HELPING PEOPLE WHO WOULD BE
EVICTED EVEN FROM HOUSING
COMMISSION SITE.
SO THAT'S HOW SERIOUS THAT NEED
IS.
IT'S YOU KNOW, THIS IS NOT AT
ALL IN RELATION TO RISING HOPE
BUT I JUST HOPED THAT WE COULD
CONTINUE TO FUND THIS TO
CONTINUE AND BECAUSE OF THE WAY
THE PROGRAM IS ADMINISTERED,
YOU KNOW, IT GOES OUT THROUGH
AH THE ENOGGERA HOUSING
COMMISSION AND HOUSING
COMMISSION ALSO RUNS RISING
HOPE.
BUT IN THIS ONE WHEN WE
ALLOCATE FUNDS IN THIS WAY IT
THE FUNDS ARE ALLOCATED VERY
DIRECTLY BY INTERIM HOUSING
COMMISSIONER THAT'S TO THEIR
OWN TENANTS.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDED AMENDMENT ALL IN FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED OVER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
I'D LIKE TO MOVE AMENDMENT FOUR
TO ADD THE FOLLOWING RESULT
CLAUSE TO THE BOILERPLATE TEXT
OF FISCAL YEAR TWENTY SIX.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
CARTER?
>> WE'RE DENHA YOU STILL THE
FLOOR
WE JUST VOTED WE VOTED ON
IT THEN IN THREE HAS BEEN VOTED
ON AND PASSED AS AMENDED.
>> YEAH THANK YOU.
YEAH.
>> SO THIS IS THE YEAH YEAH.
THANK.
SO THIS IS A RARE NONMONETARY
BUDGET AMENDMENT RATHER AN
AMENDMENT TO THE BOILERPLATE
TEXT OF THE FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY SIX BUDGET AS WE ALL
KNOW THERE ARE MANY JUSTIFIABLE
AND BENEFICIAL USES FOR DRONE
TECHNOLOGY INCLUDING THINGS
LIKE SEARCH AND RESCUE
SURVEYING LARGE AREAS AFTER
NATURAL DISASTERS, CENTRAL
SITUATIONAL AWARENESS DURING A
FIRE, ASSESSING ACTIVE
EMERGENCIES, INFRASTRUCTURE
MONITOR MONITORING AND SO MUCH
MORE.
I'M GRATEFUL THAT OUR STAFF
INCLUDING ADMINISTRATOR TONY
AND CHIEF KENNEDY AND ANDERSON
HAVE SPENT SO MUCH TIME TALKING
TO ME AND OTHERS ABOUT THIS
TOPIC AND FOR THEIR
TRANSPARENCY AROUND PLANS TO
IMPLEMENT THESE BENEFICIAL USES
WITHIN CITY OPERATIONS THROUGH
DISCUSSIONS THAT COUNCIL
COMMITTEE MEETINGS AND THROUGH
MANY ONE ON ONE MEETINGS I'VE
HAD WITH THEM OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL MONTHS I'VE BEEN
GRATEFUL TO HEAR A CONSISTENT
COMMITMENT FROM STAFF TO
FOLLOWING GUIDANCE FROM THE
ACLU AS POLICIES ARE DEVELOPED
ON THE APPROPRIATE USE OF THIS
TECHNOLOGY TO RESPECT PRIVACY
RIGHTS, PROHIBIT UNWARRANTED
SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECT CIVIL
LIBERTIES.
HOWEVER, A CRITICAL PART
OF ACLU IS GUIDANCE STIPULATES
THAT QUOTE USAGE POLICY ON
DRONES SHOULD BE DECIDED BY THE
PUBLIC'S REPRESENTATIVES AND
THE POLICIES SHOULD BE CLEAR,
WRITTEN AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
FOR ME THIS IS PARTICULARLY
IMPORTANT TO ENSURE THAT ANY
POLICY AND ULTIMATELY USE
OF DRONES BY THE CITY
GOVERNMENT HAS COUNCIL LEVEL
OVERSIGHT AND THAT ALL
AUTHORIZED USES AND ANY
SUBSEQUENT CHANGES TO THE
POLICY ARE APPROVED BY AN
ACCOUNTABLE PUBLIC BODY IN A
TRANSPARENT AND OPEN PROCESS.
THROUGH MY CONVERSATIONS WITH
ADMINISTRATOR TO HONI I HAVE
EVERY CONFIDENCE THAT STAFF IS
PREPARING TO FINALIZE A DRAFT
AND A DRAFT POLICY IN THE
COMING WEEKS TO PRESENT TO
COUNCIL THIS BUDGET AMENDMENT
SIMPLY ENSURES THAT INTEL THAT
POLICY IS FORMALLY ADOPTED
THROUGH AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE
OF THE COUNCIL THAT FISCAL
YEAR.
TWENTY SIX BUDGET CANNOT BE
EXPENDED FOR THIS PURPOSE.
>> THANK YOU AND I ENCOURAGE
YOUR SUPPORT FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
>> CAUCASIAN.
THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA FOR YOUR
LEADERSHIP ON THIS AND I JUST
WANT TO REMIND THE PUBLIC THAT
IN MAY OF LAST YEAR I AND
SEVERAL OTHER SEVERAL OF MY
COLLEAGUES HELPED TO SPEARHEAD
A FACIAL RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY
RESOLUTION LIMITING THE USE
OF IT.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT TONIGHT BECAUSE IT'S
IN ACCORDANCE WITH WHAT WE
PASSED IN THE FACIAL
RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY THAT THE
USE OF TECHNOLOGY THAT
POTENTIALLY HAS RISK OR
INACCURACY OR INVASION
OF PRIVACY SHOULD REALLY BE
MADE.
THOSE DECISIONS SHOULD BE MADE
THAT INVOLVE THE COMMUNITY AND
WITH DECREASING POTENTIAL HARM
AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
SO I SUPPORT THIS.
THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
.
>> MARIAH, I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
AMENDMENT FIVE PLEASE.
>> IS OUR SECOND SECONDED BY
COUNSEL BRACKMAN DISCUSSION
COUNCIL.
WHERE ARE YOU STILL OF THE
FLOOR.
>> THANK YOU.
SO THIS IS THE EQUITABLE
COMMUNICATIONS TO THE COMMUNITY
AMENDMENT AND I'M PROUD TO
SUPPORT THIS AMENDMENT TO
CONTINUE FUNDING EQUITABLE
INFORMATIONAL MAILINGS FROM
CITY COUNCIL TO THE COMMUNITY.
THIS FUNDING WILL ENSURE THAT
ANY UNSPENT FUNDS FROM LAST
YEAR'S COMMUNICATIONS EFFORT
ARE CARRIED FORWARD AND THAT WE
HAVE THE ABILITY TO SEND A
SECOND ROUND OF CITYWIDE
MAILINGS IN THE BUDGET YEAR
AHEAD.
THESE COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INFORMATIONAL IN NATURE.
THEY COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE
LAWS AND THEY ARE CLOSELY
REVIEWED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY
TO ENSURE LEGAL COMPLIANCE.
>> THERE'S CLEAR PRECEDENT FOR
THIS KIND OF OUTREACH BY OUR
STATE LEGISLATORS AND SIMILAR
TAXPAYER FUNDED TAXPAYER FUNDED
MAILERS TO CONSTITUENTS ON A
REGULAR BASIS UPDATING US ON
THEIR LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES.
WE'VE ALREADY SEEN THE VALUE
OF THIS APPROACH HERE AND THIS
AT THE CITY LEVEL IN THE FIRST
ROUND OF MAILERS THAT JUST WENT
OUT RECENTLY AND ARE STILL
GOING OUT.
EVERY WARD TEAM INCLUDED
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
COMPREHENDS AND LAND USE PLAN
WHICH MEANT THAT FOR THE FIRST
TIME EVERY HOUSEHOLD IN ANN
ARBOR RECEIVED INFORMATION
ABOUT THE PLAN AND HOW TO GET
INVOLVED.
SO IT KIND OF REACHED SIMPLY
ISN'T POSSIBLE THROUGH DIGITAL
NEWSLETTERS OR CAMPAIGN MAILERS
AND I WOULD SAY CAMPAIGN
MAILERS ONLY GO TO A NARROW
GROUP MOSTLY DEMOCRATS WHO ARE
FREQUENT VOTERS.
THESE CITY MAILERS THEY'RE
DIFFERENT.
THEY GO TO EVERY HOUSEHOLD IN
ANN ARBOR NO MATTER YOUR
POLITICAL AFFILIATION OR HOW
YOU VOTE, HOW OFTEN YOU VOTE,
THEY REACH PEOPLE WHO ARE
CRITICALLY DON'T USE EMAIL, WHO
AREN'T ON SOCIAL MEDIA AND WHO
NEVER SIGNED FOR A COUNCIL
MEMBERS EMAIL NEWSLETTER.
THE DIGITAL DIVIDE IS STILL
VERY REAL IN OUR COMMUNITY,
ESPECIALLY FOR LOWER INCOME
RESIDENTS.
SENIORS AND PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
SO RELYING ONLY ON DIGITAL
COMMUNICATION JUST ISN'T GOOD
ENOUGH.
>> FURTHER IN TODAY'S MEDIA
WORLD WHERE EVERYTHING FILTERED
AND CURATED, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
HAVE AT LEAST ONE WAY
OF REACHING EVERYONE DIRECTLY.
THIS IS ABOUT JUST MAKING SURE
PEOPLE CAN GET THE BASICS ON
WHAT THEIR LOCAL GOVERNMENT IS
DOING NO MATTER WHO THEY ARE OR
HOW PLUGGED IN THEY MIGHT BE
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
THAT'S NEVER A DISH I WOULD
LIKE TO EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE TO
COUNCIL MEMBER IRA FOR HAVING
THE FORESIGHT TO BUDGET FOR
THIS AND OUR LAST ROUND
OF BUDGETING BECAUSE IF WE ARE
HEARING ANYTHING ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND-USE PLAN
OTHER THAN GEE I NEED TO THINK
MORE ABOUT IT WE'RE HEARING I
DIDN'T HEAR ENOUGH ABOUT IT AND
THIS WAS OUR FIRST CHANCE TO
REMEDY THAT.
I WOULD LIKE TO IF YOU'LL HUMOR
ME MENTION THAT IT IS IMPORTANT
THAT THESE FIRES GO TO PEOPLE
WHO DON'T USE EMAIL.
I FOUND IT CHALLENGING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO PUT A LINK TO
A CITY WEB PAGE ON A PAPER
FLIER SO I DID OFFER
INSTRUCTIONS HOW TO GOOGLE ON
OUR FLIER AND I WILL ALSO SAY
THAT OUR FLIER CONTAINED
INFORMATION ABOUT THE DUNBAR
TOWER, THE 63 UNIT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PROJECT THAT'S GOING UP
IN KOREATOWN.
A PERSON ASKED ME IF IT WERE
PARKING AND I WAS DELIGHTED TO
BE ABLE TO TELL THEM NO, IT'S
HOUSING SO NOT EVERYONE IS
FOLLOWING THINGS AS CLOSELY AS
SOME DO AND FINALLY OUR FLIER
CONTAINED INFORMATION ABOUT THE
UPCOMING SPECIAL ELECTION IN
AUGUST WHICH IS AN OFF OFF YEAR
ELECTION THAT WILL ALLOW
RESIDENTS OF ANN ARBOR TO AMEND
THE CITY
CHARTER TO REPEAL THE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN COUNSEL OF THE
COMMONS AMENDMENT AND AUTHORIZE
THE CITY TO SELL ITS INTERESTS
IN THE LIBRARY LANE PARKING
STRUCTURE TO THE ADL.
I FELT IT WAS IMPORTANT TO PUT
THAT IN THE FLIER BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW HOW MANY PEOPLE KNOW
THAT THAT'S COMING UP AND THEY
ARE NOT EXPECTING TO GO TO THE
POLLS THIS AUGUST.
SO IF ANYONE DOESN'T THINK THAT
WAS AN INFORMATIONAL FLIER,
PLEASE SEND ME AN EMAIL COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON GUESS I JUST
WANTED TO NOTE THAT SINCE I
DIDN'T SUPPORT THE INITIAL
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLAR
AMENDMENT I'LL BE ALSO VOTING
NO ON THIS.
I THINK.
>> BUT I WILL SAY AS PART
OF THE ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
I THINK A LOT OF INFORMATIVE
MATERIAL WAS PUT ON THIS AND I
THINK THAT THAT WAS GOOD WORK.
BUT I DO THINK I HAVE TO BE
CONSISTENT TO MY ORIGINAL LAST
MOTORCYCLE KAZMIR IN THE BREAKS
I GUESS SPEAKING OF THAT, I WAS
ALSO SKEPTICAL LAST CYCLE THE
CONTEXT OF THAT I THOUGHT WAS A
BIT DIFFERENT BECAUSE WE WERE
FACING PROJECTED BUDGET DEFICIT
IT SEEMED LIKE IN THE NEAR TERM
AND ALSO WASN'T FAMILIAR KIND
OF WITH DOING THIS.
IT JUST SO HAPPENS THAT THIS
LANDED IN MY MAILBOX TODAY AND
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, I
SUPPORT ANYTHING THAT GETS
INFORMATION INTO THE HANDS
OF RESIDENT AND TO THE DEGREE
THAT YOU KNOW, I'VE HEARD OVER
THE LAST COUPLE MONTHS, WHY
DIDN'T YOU TELL US THAT YOU HAD
A NEWSLETTER OR JUST YOU KNOW,
WE DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO THIS?
I THINK THAT TODAY'S
INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT IS VERY
CHALLENGING AND IT REQUIRES
MULTIPLE CHANNELS TO KIND
OF HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO GET
THROUGH TO PEOPLE SO WELL THIS
HASN'T REALLY BEEN OUT LONG
ENOUGH TO GET FEEDBACK ON HOW
WELL THAT'S ACHIEVING THAT YOU
KNOW, WILLING TO DEDICATE THIS
YOU KNOW, AND PERSPECTIVE SMALL
AMOUNT OF MONEY TO PROVIDE
ANOTHER MEANS FOR PEOPLE
KNOWING WHO THE REPS ARE AND
HOW TO ACCESS IMPORTANT CITY
SERVICES COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
THINKS AND WHILE I UNDERSTAND
THAT THE INTENT OF THIS I FEEL
FAIRLY SIMILAR TO COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON IN THE SENSE THAT
I'D LIKE TO REMAIN CONSISTENT
WITH MY MY PREVIOUS VOTE ON
THIS.
BUT I ALSO THERE'S ANOTHER
PIECE OF THIS THAT I FIND THAT
A LITTLE BIT TROUBLESOME.
THIS IS IT'S NOT JUST FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
IT'S FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
FROM OUR GENERAL FUND BALANCE.
>> SO GENERALLY AND SINCE I
JUST GOT THROUGH TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE WE CAN GET
MONEY FROM, WE ALWAYS FIND AN
OFFSET FOR SOMETHING AND THAT
IS THAT'S THAT'S WHAT THAT'S
WHAT OUR STANDARD IS.
RIGHT.
IF WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
TO SAY THAT WE WANT TO DO
SOMETHING WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT IS SOMETHING ELSE WE'RE
NOT GOING TO DO AND THAT WASN'T
DONE WITH THIS AMENDMENT.
>> AND SO WHILE I UNDERSTAND
THAT THIS IS A PRIORITY FOR FOR
YOU AND FOR OTHERS TO PROVIDE,
YOU KNOW, SORT OF ENHANCE
PRINTED COMMUNICATIONS, I THINK
WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT, YOU
KNOW, HOW DO WE DO THAT WITHIN
A BALANCED WAY COUNCIL REMOTE.
>> THANK YOU.
GIVEN THE CONVERSATION WE'VE
HAD THE LAST SEVERAL MONTHS
AROUND THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
IN PARTICULAR, ONE THING I HAVE
HEARD IS JUST THE CRUCIAL
IMPORTANCE OF CITY
COMMUNICATIONS.
COMMUNICATIONS OFTEN AREN'T THE
SEXY TOPIC MANY OF US LIKE TO
TALK ABOUT BUT I DO BELIEVE
THEY ARE CRUCIALLY IMPORTANT TO
AN INFORMED PUBLIC ENGAGED AND
ALL THE THINGS I PERSONALLY
WANT BECAUSE I KNOW I DON'T
KNOW EVERYTHING SO I LOVE IT
WHEN RESIDENTS REACH OUT AND WE
HAVE A VERY INFORMED PUBLIC ON
SPECIFIC TOPICS BUT THEY'RE NOT
ALWAYS INFORMED ON WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN THE CITY.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS
AMENDMENT TODAY.
>> AS FOR MY PART AS SOMEONE
WHO VOTED AGAINST THE AMENDMENT
THE LAST CYCLE, I WILL BE
VOTING IN FAVOR OF THE
AMENDMENT THIS CYCLE.
YOU KNOW MY CONCERNS WITH
RESPECT TO THE CONTENT OF THE
OF THE PIECE IS HAS PROVEN
ENTIRELY UNFOUNDED.
THE TO MY EYE AND IF I MAY
SPEAK WITH THE CITY ATTORNEY
SINCE EACH OF THESE EACH WORD
HAS BEEN REVIEWED CAREFULLY BY
THEIR OFFICE, THEY ARE ENTIRELY
CONSISTENT WITH THE GOAL OF THE
WITH THE GOAL OF THE AMENDMENT
THAT IS TO SAY TO PROVIDE CLEAR
ACCURATE AND YOU KNOW,
NONPOLITICAL INFORMATION TO THE
PUBLIC THROUGH A CHANNEL THAT
IS NOT THAT IS EYE-CATCHING AND
NOT NOT OTHERWISE NOT OTHERWISE
IMPLEMENTED.
>> YOU KNOW, PEOPLE DON'T HEAR
DIRECTLY FROM THEIR
REPRESENTATIVES.
WE DON'T HAVE STAFF TO AFFECT
COMMUNICATION TO RESIDENTS.
WE DON'T HAVE HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS OUR OWN
PERSONAL OUR OWN OFFICE BUDGETS
TO AFFECT THIS KIND
OF COMMUNICATION.
TYPICALLY IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
RESIDENTS KNOW SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT THEIR CITY IS DOING
.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT THEY
UNDERSTAND WHO THEIR
REPRESENTATIVES ARE FOR BOTH
YOU KNOW, FOR VARIOUS ADVOCACY
AND CONSTITUENT SERVICE
PURPOSES.
SO I THINK THAT THE
COMMUNICATIONS HAVE BEEN
POSITIVE AND I'M EXCITED TO
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO AGAIN
SUPPORT THEM AND I SHOULD SAY
THANKS, COUNCILMAN, FOR
VISITING THE WHOLE CITY THING
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL CALL
THOUGH PLEASE.
>> STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
COUNCILMAN RYAN.
YES, CUSTOMER YES.
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS NO CUSTOMER
KORNEL YES.
CUSTOMER DISH.
YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
YES.
>> ELSMERE WATSON NO CUSTOMER
MALIK YES.
CULBURRA DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER 01 YES RETAILOR YES.
>> MOSHIN KERI'S FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED
COUNCIL MEMBER
BREAKS SINCE I I JUST WANTED TO
SAY THANK YOU TO OUR STAFF THAT
PROVIDED SO MUCH SUPPORT DURING
THIS PROCESS AND HELPED US GET
THROUGH FOR BUDGET AMENDMENTS
PROVIDED SOME SOME OPTIONS
THERE AROUND HOW WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO THINK THROUGH THIS AND
ACCOMPLISH OUR GOALS.
SO EACH TIME WE GO THROUGH THIS
PROCESS I AM JUST REALLY
INCREDIBLY IMPRESSED BY THE
WEALTH, KNOWLEDGE AND AND
ACCESS AND AND HELP THAT OUR
STAFF PROVIDES US.
>> SO THANK YOU TO ALL FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
LIKE TO JUST SAY THIS THIS
BUDGET IS THE RESULT OF MONTHS
AND UNTOLD HOURS OF WORK WORK
PERFORMED BY RESIDENTS AND
DOING THEIR PART TO ADVOCATE
COUNCIL MEMBERS DOING THEIR
PART TO REVIEW BUT ULTIMATELY
OF COURSE TO STAFF HONESTLY
DOING IT ALL THIS BUDGET
AFFECTS THE PURPOSE OF LOCAL
GOVERNMENT THAT IS TO SAY TO
IMPROVE BASIC SERVICES AND
ENHANCE QUALITY OF LIFE.
>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SOME
ITEMS TODAY BUT IT'S IMPORTANT
TO UNDERSTAND AND SUPPORT FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO TO
HAVE IN THEIR FOREFRONT THAT
THIS BUDGET TOUCHES EVERYTHING
THE CITY DOES POLICE FIRE,
AMBULANCE DRINKING WATER,
STORMWATER, SANITARY STREETS,
SIDEWALKS, SNOW REMOVAL, SOLID
WASTE RECYCLING, COMPOSTING,
PLANNING, HOUSING,
CONSTRUCTION, BUILDING AND
RENTAL INSPECTIONS, COURT
SERVICES, CLIMATE ACTION,
RENEWABLE ENERGY PARKS AND FREE
AND FAIR ELECTIONS.
>> THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT
YOUR LOCAL GOVERNMENT DOES FOR
YOU TODAY THAT HELPS YOU WITH
YOUR EVERYDAY LIVES.
>> THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT
WILL FORM THE FOUNDATION FOR AN
AMAZING COMMUNITY TOMORROW WE
AND BY THAT I MEAN YOUR CITY
STAFF TO ALL THESE THINGS WITH
CARE, PROFESSIONALISM,
ENTHUSIASM, VISION AND SKILL.
>> WE DO THESE THINGS WITH A
RIGOROUS ATTENTION TO THE
BOTTOM LINE CEASELESS
STEWARDSHIP OF PUBLIC DOLLARS
RETAIN OUR RARE AND
WELL-DESERVED AAA BOND RATING.
FOR MY PART I AM PROUD OF THIS
BUDGET AND INCREDIBLY GRATEFUL
FOR THE STAFF THAT HAS WORKED
SO HARD AND WELL TO DEVISE IT
FOR OUR REVIEW AND ULTIMATELY
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY FOR OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS COLLECTIVE
AND INDIVIDUAL BENEFIT FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSE
IT IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CLASSER
CLARKE'S REPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MAY HAVE A MOTION.
PLEASE DO APPROVE THE SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNSEL ASSISTING BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED THE
CLERK SUPPORT GOOD PRESS.
>> I'M
BUT THANK YOU THINK I'M
NOT UNERRING BUT IT'S NOT WE'RE
NOT QUITE THERE YET.
>> I HAVEN'T YET HEARD IS MY
POINT NO NOTION OF PROOF IS THE
RESULT OF THE CLERK'S REPORT.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU MISS CORE
ARE THE COMMUNICATIONS OF THE
CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
THANK YOU.
AND NOW UNLESS I'M MISTAKEN WE
HAVE BECOME AN OVERFLOW AND
OVERFLOW OCCURS WHEN WE HAVE
FOLKS WHO HAVE SIGNED UP FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT BUT WHO HAVE NOT
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK
WITH PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE
OUTSET OF THE MEETING SPEAKERS
IN ALL INSTANCES WHAT THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS OUR
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME'S
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
>> OUR FIRST PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW SPEAKER TODAY IS ALAN
HABOUR YET HE DID YELLOW ALAN
HABOUR I DON'T BELIEVE HE IS
ONLINE
SPEAKER IS JEREMY HAYLIE
FATIMATA.
GOOD EVENING.
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
>> I AM SURE WE HAVE SEE
TOWNSHIP OF WELL RISING HOPE
FOR THE PEOPLE CAN'T GET HOUSE
HOUSING YOU MIGHT WANT TO LOOK
INTO THE INSURANCE POLICIES
THAT SOME OF THESE PLACES ARE
USE.
IT MIGHT BE WRITTEN INTO THE
POLICIES IS THERE MIGHT BE A
LIABILITY.
IT MIGHT BE SOMEWHAT
DISCRIMINATORY IN A WAY WRITTEN
IN A WAY THAT THEY CAN WRITE
THEM OUT BECAUSE HEY, IF YOU
HAVE SO MANY PEOPLE HERE
OF SUCH STATURE, WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO CHARGE YOU MORE
INSURANCE.
SO THEREFORE THEY DON'T RENT
OUT.
SO SOMETHING TO LOOK INTO
BECAUSE IF YOU GET INTO STUFF
LIKE THAT AND WE ALL REMEMBER
TOYS R US, RIGHT.
PRIVATE EQUITY GROUP BOUGHT
THAT TURNED IT, SAW THE
PROPERTIES AND RENTED
PROPERTIES BACK TO TOYS R US
AND BANKRUPTED THE WHOLE
COMPANY AND THE EQUITY GROUP
RAN OFF WITH THE MONEY.
>> AS I'M SAYING, IT'S WITHIN
POLICIES OF THESE COMPANIES
THAT YOU ACTUALLY REALLY NEED
TO LOOK INTO HOW THEY ACTUALLY
FUNCTION, HOW THEY CAN ACTUALLY
SCREW PEOPLE OVER WHAT WHAT I'M
HERE TO IS LIKE THE OVERALL
CHARACTER OF ANN ARBOR AS YOU
GUYS GO FORWARD YOU REALLY NEED
TO KEEP IN MIND AS YOU GUYS ARE
GOING FORWARD WITH BYPASS
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE ALL THAT
BECAUSE THAT REALLY MATTERS AS
FAR AS THE CITY DEVELOPS THE
CHARACTER DEVELOPS WITH THE
CITY AND IF IT'S JUST A
HODGEPODGE OF THIS US AND YOU
JUST COME UP WITH A BUNCH
OF RANDOM MESS OF THIS AND THAT
,JUST ASK AND KEEP THAT IN
MIND AS YOU GO FORTH BECAUSE IF
YOU GO I DON'T KNOW IF ANY
OF YOU BEEN AS DIVERSE AS FOLKS
AT ONE SIXTY TO CHELSEA HOTEL
BAR THAT'S BEEN THERE FOR A
WHILE THEY ACTUALLY GOT SOME
REALLY OLD PICTURES OF THE
ENTIRE STADIUM PRETTY MUCH WHEN
IT WAS FIRST BUILT.
YOU CAN LOOK BEHIND THE MAIN
STREET AND THERE'S NOTHING AND
JUST A COUPLE OF PLACES A
COUPLE OF OLDER PICTURES OF THE
TOWN.
YOU KNOW WHAT I'M SAYING WITH
THAT IS THE CHARACTER COMES
WITH IT AND LIKE I'VE ASKED
PEOPLE WHAT DOES KERRY TOWN OR
WHAT DOES KERRY TOWN REMIND
THEM OF AND ALL I GOT ANSWERS
BACK WAS THE FARMER'S MARKET
AND THE ARCHITECTURE THE
BUILDINGS AND NOW THERE'S THE
DUNBAR TOWER.
THERE'S ANOTHER TOWER YOU'RE
TAKING AWAY WHAT MADE KERRY
TOWN KERRY TOWN WAS THE
ARCHITECTURE OF INCREASED
DENSITY.
SAME THING WITH PACKARD ROW
GOING DOWN PACKARD SUDDEN YOU
GOT PAST FRAZIERS AS I CALLED
THIS GODI THING THAT'S NOT EVEN
AN APPROPRIATE ANGLE ON ONE
SIDE IT'S LIKE WHAT IS IT
RETAIL AND JUST TAKE THAT AND
MIND WHEN YOU DO ALL THAT
BECAUSE IT DOES MATTER THE
OVERALL CHARACTER OF THE TOWN
AND WHO COMES IN AND LIVES
HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COUNCIL?
OH I LOVE TO HEAR FROM YOU BUT
REALLY HONESTLY NOT THAT MUCH
OF A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
>> PLEASE MOVE BY WITH YOUR HE
WAS NOT HERE WHEN THEY CALLED
ON THE WAY THAT THEN THAT'S OK.
OK REGRETTABLY MOTION TO
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY CORNELL
DISH DISCUSSION ON FABER POST.
WE'RE ADJOURNED